During his visit to Indianapolis last week, Grantland's Bill Simmons got a chance to sit down and talk with the "Basketball Jesus" himself, Larry Bird. In the latest BS Report, they discuss the Celtics' glory years, the changes in NBA basketball, which current players impress the Celtics legend the most and more. To listen to the podcast, click HERE.
Here are some of the highlights:
On the possibility of Bird ever leaving the Celtics (and touching on the Peyton Manning situation in Indy): "Red [Auerbach] knew I wasn't going anywhere. ... I would have never left Boston, unless they traded me. I like to see guys come in, especially the elite players, and stay in one place. I think it's very important for the city, because we don't have a lot of great ones come through here, and Peyton Manning is by far the greatest athlete to ever come through [Indianapolis]. If he's healthy, hopefully he stays and finishes out his career.
"If you have an elite player come through, especially a small market, you've got to hold on to them players. They're not born every day."
On whether it would be prudent to break up the current Big 3 or even the original Big 3 of Bird, Kevin McHale and Robert Parish -- as current Celtics president Danny Ainge has suggested: "I would have kept them [referring to himself, McHale and Parish]. The one thing about Red was loyalty. And that's why I never wanted to leave there, because I always knew he had my back, he cared for me, he wanted me to do well. Obviously, he wanted me to play at a high level.... Danny [Ainge] did tell Red he should trade us right now because we don't have much left in the tank... I was there with Danny and Red and McHale the day we were talking about that. The one thing that Danny threw in there was players’ names. The whole time I was in Boston I never heard Red mention any other players on other teams. I heard him talking about draft picks, but I never heard anything about, ‘Larry, I can trade you for this, this and this.’ He just never did that... Kevin McHales don't come around very often. ... you know, in 1987 Kevin played through a broken foot -- it was actually broken and he tried to play and he's still paying for it. So, you don't find those types of guys anymore. Very few of them out there probably. Kevin gave his heart and soul to the Celtics and Red knew that."
On how he would have retired in 1988 if the Celtics' top pick in the 1986 NBA draft, Len Bias, hadn't died from a drug overdose: "I would have left in '88. ... Because I started having the ankle problems ... if he was there, I would have just shut it down right then [at age 32].
On whether the '86 Celtics team was the best of that era: "There's no question. With Bill Walton coming in as your backup, Scotty Wedman, Jerry Sichting, I mean we were loaded. And if you remember, Jerry shot like 55 percent from the field that year ... Scotty played behind me, and Bill played behind me, it was just a stacked team."
On the '87 team, with all the Celtics' injuries: "I was the healthiest one on the team."
On playing approximately 43 minutes a game that year: "It's all right, I got paid for 48."
On why it was difficult to stay healthy for him and other Celtics players: "The one thing that people don't understand is, if you look at our teams, four years in a row we went to the finals. And playoff basketball is completely different. I played two years of playoff basketball, but our bodies don't have time to recover when we had injuries. So when you go 2 1/2 months and you start again, you feel better but you're not recovered healthwise. And that just kept adding on, and adding on, and adding on. Kobe [Bryant] is one of the toughest human beings I've ever seen because I know what he's been through. And he's played a hell of a lot more minutes than me."
On the Celtics' dominance in the '80s: I really felt that, when we won our first championship, I told our team 'We've got to win at least four or five of these things or we didn't do our job. I always thought that we left them on the table."
On the NBA becoming less physical due to new rules: "They needed to put a stop to a lot of it. In the '80s, when I played, there were a lot of cheap shots. If you go back and watch the Pistons... Scotty [Pippen] getting pounded... a lot of it happened after the whistle. ... Guys where getting hurt, and it takes a toll on your body. They had to clean it up some, but they've taken it too far, especially with the flagrant fouls and stuff."
On his -- and the Celtics' -- ongoing feud with the Detroit Pistons' Bill Lambeer, on and off the court: "It's because he was a dirty player. He had to do what he had to do, I understand that, but -- like Ricky Mahorn, he'd hit you and all that... but he didn't try to maim you. Bill tried to hurt you. He was one of them guys who, you'd shoot a jumper and he'd slide his foot under your ankle so you'd twist your ankle. That's why Parish always went down. If you watch any of our old games, Parish was always twisting his ankle against the Pistons."
On how -- and why -- the concept of team basketball has changed, with individual players dominating the court: "AAU... I'm a firm believer it all starts back there. The colleges... it's all about 'How many did you get? What kind of dunk did you have? If you look at our game, the mid-range game is almost gone. ... Everybody gets caught up on these dunks. I mean, if somebody dunked on you, and you go down and hit a three, who's ahead? [laughs] I never did get that. But, I think it will come back, but we're really missing the overall game. We're just seeing great athletes out there running and jumping."
On LeBron James and the enormous attention he's received: "I think he should sit back and enjoy [it]. I think he's one of the greatest that's ever played our game. We all make mistakes, you know, I did a lot of things I sorta regret. Whether he regrets [anything] or not, I don't know. He made some decisions -- the 'decision' was a bad decision -- but you gotta enjoy this guy. If you're a basketball fan, you gotta sit back and go 'Wow, how'd he do that.' I always said 'Boy, I wish I had his speed." ... You know, Kobe [Bryant] was always my favorite since I got out, but LeBron James is by far our best player is this league. I don’t really think there’s anyone next to him. I think he’s there, and then you go down the list."
On which current player he would want to play with: "Probably Kobe. Of course he wouldn't be shooting as much as he does now [laughs]. But just his desire to win, his dedication in the offseason to get better, and he's just tough. He's just a tough cat.
"But if you want to have fun like I did with Bill Walton, you play with LeBron."
On Simmons' admission that out of the top 25 greatest moments in his life, Bird was involved in seven of them: "You need to get a better life."Dane Sanzenbacher has plenty of doubters, but he has at least one person in his corner who is hoping the Chicago Bears use the receiver this season, and it's an important supporter.
"He's impressive," Jay Cutler said Wednesday. "He ran with us early in camp. Once we put in a lot of stuff, you can tell he was swimming a little bit, thinking a little bit.
"I think once we get this week kind of hammered down and get all the details to him, I think he's going to be fine."
Cutler completed a team-high four passes to the former Ohio State star on Monday.
"He's going to be a guy I think we're going to use a lot -- hopefully," Cutler said.IRVING, Texas -- Running back Lance Dunbar (North Texas) cleared waivers and will return to the Cowboys on the practice squad roster.
The Cowboys had to finalize their practice squad by 11 a.m. CT. They can have as many as eight players on the squad.
Dunbar finished the preseason rushing for 105 yards on 15 carries with a touchdown against the Miami Dolphins. However, the Cowboys only wanted to keep three running backs on the 53-man roster: DeMarco Murray, Felix Jones and Phillip Tanner.
Dunbar battled through a hamstring injury that kept him off the field during training camp practices and preseason games. The Cowboys liked his speed and good lateral movement.
The Cowboys could make other moves to the 53-man roster based on which players they attempted to claim on waivers.
Update: Running back Jamize Olawale cleared waivers and will join the Cowboys practice squad. Completing the practice squad are DT Ben Bass, WR Tim Benford, DT Robert Callaway, WR Danny Coale, G Ronald Leary and LB Orie Lemon.
The biggest name not on this list is outside linebacker Adrian Hamilton (Dallas Carter), who set a SWAC single-season record for sacks last year at Prairie View A&M.
Coale being added to the practice squad isn't a surprise. He lost a roster spot to wide receiver Andre Holmes. However, Coale's health was an issue.
"We liked Danny Coale a lot. That’s why we drafted him," coach Jason Garrett said. "Unfortunately, like with a couple of our younger players, rookies who we drafted, we didn’t get a chance to see him very much. He had a foot injury in the spring. I think he only practiced one OTA practice, and then all through training camp he was dealing with a foot or (hamstring), or whatever it was. He didn’t play that much. He’s been playing the last couple weeks. So it was hard for him to make his case. Andre Holmes is a guy we picked up last year, a guy that we liked a lot, did some good things for us on the practice roster last year, enough to activate him at the end of the year."FRISCO, Texas -- The Dallas Cowboys won't play their starters or regulars in tonight's preseason finale against the Houston Texans, but running game Lance Dunbar would not be opposed to getting at least some work.
"I mean it wouldn't hurt," Dunbar said.
Lance Dunbar made a faster than expected recovery from his knee injury last season. AP Photo/Brynn Anderson
Dunbar was activated off the active/physically unable on Aug. 21 as he has made a faster-than-expected return from a torn anterior cruciate ligament and patellar tendon in the fourth game last season against the New Orleans Saints.
He has taken work in 11-on-11 drills in practice this week.
"I've been feeling pretty good," Dunbar said.
The Cowboys view Dunbar as a third-down back. He had a career-high 21 catches in just four games last year. His speed and quickness make him a matchup problem for defenses. He can also return kicks, however, that is how he got injured last year.
If he does not play against the Texans -- and it's not expected -- Dunbar said he tested his knee in rehab to make sure he could withstand what it takes to play in a game.
"I didn't wait to test it on the practice field," Dunbar said. "I've been working hard and doing drills. I tried to go hard there so I won't have to when I get back and maybe worry about it. I tested it before I got out there."
Soon after Dunbar had his surgery, his goal was to be ready by Week 1. It looks like he will have reached that mark.
"I didn't want to sit out," Dunbar said. "I've always come back from injuries pretty fast. I heal pretty fast, thank the Lord. But that was my goal from the time I figured out what my injury was. I had a long time to wonder and I felt like if I worked hard I'd be back on time."Kevin Durant explains how he hasn't let public opinion affect his game as he prepares to head to the NBA Finals as a Warrior. (0:59)
SAN ANTONIO -- The Golden State Warriors have advanced to the NBA Finals for the third consecutive year after sweeping the San Antonio Spurs by way of a 129-115 victory in Game 4 of the Western Conference finals on Monday.
The Warriors are now a perfect 12-0 in the playoffs, and they are the first team in NBA history to accomplish such a feat. They're also the first team in NBA history to sweep three best-of-seven series in the same postseason.
"It's a big task. It's a huge accomplishment, and I tip my hat off to all of our players, our coaching staff was phenomenal," Warriors acting coach Mike Brown said.
Stephen Curry produced a game-high 36 points on 14-of-24 shooting. He also had five boards, six assists and five 3-pointers.
He dribbled circles around whoever was guarding him. There was minimum defensive resistance, whether he was penetrating to the basket or getting open for 3s out of pick-and-pop sets.
After drilling his fourth 3-pointer of the game, Curry passed Kobe Bryant (292) for fifth place on the NBA's all-time playoff 3-pointers list. Curry now has 295 career postseason 3s.
Curry said that starting "12-0 is great, but it doesn't mean anything going into the next series." He harped on how impressed he was with his team's overall closeout mentality.
"It's a great run, and we had an opportunity to get it done tonight," Curry said. "But more importantly, it was obviously just a closeout kind of mentality coming into tonight, trying to take care of business, play a good 48-minute game."
Kevin Durant dominated this game while in cruise control. Nothing was rushed on his part. He picked his spots and attacked when needed, which resulted in 29 points on 10-of-13 from the field to go with 12 rebounds.
"You look down at the box score, and KD had a heck of a game scoring," Brown said. "He was very efficient with his scoring."
Kevin Durant played like a superstar in the Conference Finals. Here's a closer look at his domination pic.twitter.com/GcbKFtmeOz — ESPN Stats & Info (@ESPNStatsInfo) May 23, 2017
Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich tossed in a little starting-lineup wrinkle by inserting veteran Manu Ginobili in his starting five, and Brown countered with the starting of rookie forward Patrick McCaw.
San Antonio's adjustment didn't work out. With no dependable playmaker in uniform, an abundance of the Spurs' field goal attempts were tough, contested shots. The Warriors, on the other hand, got what they wanted when they wanted.
San Antonio simply didn't have the firepower.
In the second quarter, Spurs rookie point guard Dejounte Murray got a steal and took off for a fast-break opportunity with only one man to beat: Durant.
Murray raced up the court and went up for an acrobatic, left-handed layup. Durant leaped and swatted the shot with his left hand. Durant had so much hang time on his jump that when the ball ricocheted off the glass, he inadvertently swatted the ball off the glass again with his right hand.
San Antonio gave it an effort, cutting what was a 22-point, third-quarter margin down to 10 with three minutes to go in the quarter. However, Golden State responded with a fierce 10-0 run and never looked back.
2017 NBA Opening Night On opening night, the Warriors were stunned in Oakland and the Celtics' high hopes took a tumble. • Irving: Hayward injury among worst
• Despite gloom, hopeful signs for C's
• Hobbled CP3 sees Houston rally
• LeBron shakes ankle woes in opener
• Warriors get rings for 2017 title GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS Check out the team site for more game coverage SAN ANTONIO SPURS Check out the team site for more game coverage
"I feel like we could definitely be better," Durant said. "Like tonight, we had them on the ropes and they just kept clawing and fighting. So you've got to give them credit for that."
LaMarcus Aldridge was unable to be an offense force with Kawhi Leonard sidelined. He struggled again, scoring eight points on 4-of-11 shooting in 22 minutes.
The Spurs were held to 42.3 percent shooting. The Warriors shot 55.8 percent. Curry, with his six turnovers, had two fewer than what the Spurs committed as a team. A 24-4 advantage in points off turnovers still wasn't enough to substantially help the home team.
"They were fantastic," Popovich said of the Warriors. "You know, to all of them, from ownership, to Bob [Myers], to Steve [Kerr], Mike and the whole staff. The whole group. The players, obviously. [They] play a great brand of basketball. Fun to watch. They were fantastic. They did it with class, so hats off to them."
The only friction the Warriors went through came early in the contest.
Curry drove hard right on Jonathon Simmons and threw up a wild shot while being bumped to the hardwood. The ball kissed the top of the glass before finding its way through the net. Curry couldn't believe that there was no whistle and stayed planted to argue his case with his team getting back on defense.
The Spurs had numbers, and Draymond Green was forced to commit a foul. After he stopped play, a furious Green was seen yelling at Curry to get back on defense.
Green flirted with a triple-double as he started at center, ending the night with 16 points, eight rebounds and eight assists.
Green was asked if it left a spoiled taste in his mouth to defeat a depleted Spurs squad.
"We didn't just go play Sisters of the Poor," he said. "We played the San Antonio Spurs. This is a team that can still win no matter who they put out on the floor. ... So, obviously, it sucks that Kawhi wasn't there and Tony [Parker] wasn't there and David [Lee] wasn't there. But at the end of the day, a win is a win, and you have to beat whoever is out there against you."
Ginobili received a standing ovation when he checked out with 2:25 left on the clock. Chants of "Manu, Manu" showered down, as fans knew that this might be the last game of his career. He finished with 15 points and seven assists. Ginobili, who turns 40 this July, has spent each of his 15 NBA seasons in San Antonio.
"Well, you know, Manu, he's a grown man. He'll figure out what’s best for him and his family. We started him tonight out of respect," Popovich said.
"If he decides he’s going to play again, that up to him, but I won't try to convince him one way or the other. I don't think he needs that."
Golden State will await the winner of the Cleveland Cavaliers and Boston Celtics in the Eastern Conference finals. The NBA Finals will start June 1 at Oracle Arena.
"Like Steph said, 12-0 really doesn't matter into the next series. We know it's going to be a battle," Durant said.GREEN BAY, Wis. – Matt Doherty had his players in the huddle, but he knew he didn’t have their attention. His University of North Carolina basketball team was too in awe of what they just saw.
And what they were seeing again.
Instead of listening to Doherty’s instructions during a timeout, they were all watching a replay of an alley-oop dunk from Ronald Curry to Julius Peppers on the Dean Smith Center videoboard.
“One of the best dunks that I was a part of as a coach,” Doherty recalled this week. “And it was ironically two football players.”
The strength, leverage, long arms and speed of Packers LB Julius Peppers would have translated well to the NBA had he not set aside basketball after two years at North Carolina. Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images
It was Feb. 6, 2001, against Wake Forest when Curry, the Tar Heels quarterback/point guard, threw that lob to Peppers, a forward/defensive end. Doherty isn’t sure if that’s the moment he knew Peppers could play in the NBA, but even today, his former coach said the 6-foot-7 Peppers was a legitimate NBA prospect in the making had he not decided to focus solely on football after that second season at UNC.
“I’ll tell you this, I do believe if Pep would’ve just focused on basketball, he could’ve played in the NBA,” said Doherty, who is now a scout for the Indiana Pacers.
Peppers, the Green Bay Packers linebacker now in his 14th NFL season, agrees.
“No question,” he said. "At the time, [football] was the best situation for me. I had a passion for both, still do. Still love to watch basketball."
Peppers’ career averages in his two seasons of college basketball won’t wow you: 5.7 points and 3.7 rebounds per game. But he shot nearly 61 percent, including 64.3 percent as a sophomore, and played his best basketball in the final two games of his career. A year after going to the Final Four as a freshman on a team in which, according to then UNC football coach Carl Torbush, Peppers and Curry were “two of the big reasons they got to the Final Four that year,” Peppers was near dominant in his two NCAA tournament games under Doherty.
In two games – a win over Princeton and a loss to Penn State – Peppers made 13-of-15 shots and grabbed 15 rebounds. He put up 21 points and 10 rebounds in the second-round game.
Walk through any NFL locker room, and you’ll hear players arguing about who’s the better basketball player. In Green Bay, there are three former college basketball players – Peppers plus cornerbacks Demetri Goodson (Gonzaga) and Quinten Rollins (Miami of Ohio). Even Goodson and Rollins know the answer in the Packers’ locker room is Peppers.
“We’re playing for second,” Goodson said.
“All football players think they can play basketball,” said Doherty, who played alongside Michael Jordan on UNC’s 1982 NCAA title team. “And the only the one that really could a little bit when I was there [as a player] was Lawrence Taylor.
“But I’ll tell you this, Julius could. I don’t know if anybody else could, but Julius could. He had feel. He wasn’t just a rebounder or banger. He could pass the ball, make the 15-18 foot shot and had soft hands.”HOUSTON -- There will be no free-agency tours for James Harden, at least not for the next four seasons. No worrying about whether or not Harden wants to play in downtown Los Angeles for his hometown team, the Lakers.
No need to worry about Harden thinking about playing in Oklahoma City, where he spent his first three seasons in the NBA.
James Harden, the Houston Rockets' shooting guard, did something opposite of what other superstar players have done in recent years.
He stayed put.
Unlike Kevin Durant and some other elite players in recent offseasons, James Harden decided not to switch teams, signing an extension with the Rockets. Layne Murdoch/NBAE/Getty Images
Kevin Durant left. LeBron James left, then came back. Dwight Howard brokered a trade, then left, and left again.
Harden is staying.
The 26-year-old, who had two years remaining on his original deal, signed a two-year extension, which runs through the 2019-20 season.
This coming off a 41-41 season. This coming off a year when the salary cap is jumping and jumping and jumping.
Harden is calling Houston home. He wants to set his legacy in the place where "The Dream" made his mark and where Clyde came to get a ring and Yao pushed the Rockets to international appeal, and, of course, there’s Murph.
Harden believes in the Rockets, and he doesn’t care if anyone else does. He loves the fact that people are underestimating his team.
While the discussions this offseason are about stopping Durant and the Golden State Warriors, Harden noted there’s “only one basketball” to go around. The man who signed off on Harden getting his $118.1 million extension, Rockets owner Leslie Alexander, said of the Warriors, “They have to defend us, too.”
Yes, Harden is the main person to defend, and he added to his duties by acting like a de facto GM, helping the front office recruit and sign Ryan Anderson and Eric Gordon.
Chemistry, a sensitive word with sports teams when things go awry, was mentioned quite a bit Saturday afternoon.
Anderson and Gordon are good friends, having spent three seasons together in New Orleans. After Anderson agreed to terms with the Rockets last week, the first person he called was Gordon. And when Gordon was telling Alexander he wanted to sign with the Rockets, GM Daryl Morey was still pitching and selling to Gordon. Alexander halted Morey and told him to slow it down; Gordon is coming.
But it all starts with Harden, the leading scorer who took so much heat after what he called a disappointing season. His defensive abilities were questioned, something Alexander defended, stopping Harden in midsentence when he was talking about it. Alexander said it was almost unfair to Harden because he was playing nearly 40 minutes a night. He was “everything” for the Rockets, Alexander said.
The reality is Harden can play much better on defense regardless if the ball goes in the hoop or not. And he will, especially with him turning into the face of the franchise.
Harden did some good on Saturday by staying. He keeps the team relevant with his superstar stature and he also displayed a sense of loyalty. No need for the Rockets to head to the Hamptons for visits with free agents.
“It’s just that feeling where everything feels comfortable,” Harden said. “You felt loved and people want you to be here, and that feeling right there outweighs anything.”LOS ANGELES -- Sean McVay's words resonated with Lance Dunbar.
The free-agent running back was in Southern California for a visit last week and sat down with McVay, the Los Angeles Rams' rookie head coach, who walked Dunbar through his potential role in the offense. McVay wound up describing the way Dunbar always saw himself while buried in the Dallas Cowboys' depth chart. He illustrated Dunbar's traits the way Dunbar himself would recount them to someone else.
"He had me going," Dunbar said. "He had me ready to play."
Dunbar ultimately signed with the Rams on a one-year contract that could pay him up to $3 million. He will be the Rams' change-of-pace running back, a complement for the power game of Todd Gurley, and he will also be an option in the passing game. The name "Chris Thompson" came up during Dunbar's meeting with McVay, which makes sense.
Over the past two years, while McVay called plays as the Washington Redskins' offensive coordinator, Thompson found a way to be productive despite finding himself behind backs such as Alfred Morris, Robert Kelley and Matt Jones in rushing attempts. From 2015 to 2016, Thompson rushed for 572 yards on 103 attempts and caught for 589 yards on 84 catches.
Thompson, like Dunbar, boasts blazing speed, so the Redskins frequently ran him to the outside. Like on the play below, out of the pistol formation against the Detroit Lions, when Thompson ultimately got around the edge for a 16-yard gain:
NFL
Sometimes, the Redskins would also spread the field out wide and have him run up the middle on shotgun sets, like on this delayed handoff against the Cowboys, which resulted in a 6-yard gain:
NFL
But just as big a weapon were quick passes that got Thompson the ball in open space. Below is the beginning of a play that has Thompson run out to the flat. Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins picked up a blitz and got rid of it quickly to Thompson, who picked up 11 yards before getting pushed out of bounds:
NFL
And here, once again against the Cowboys, Thompson didn't have anybody to block, so he eventually ran to the outside and picked up 9 yards through the air:
NFL
"We were in the same division, so I've seen those guys [the Redskins] play, and I've seen Chris play," Dunbar said. "We are very similar. I catch the ball in the backfield. I can run routes. I can run the ball. To see him do those things gave me a little bit more confidence and more belief in [McVay], that he will allow me to do those things."
Dunbar made the Cowboys' roster as an undrafted free agent in 2012. He had a breakout game against the Oakland Raiders late in 2013, rushing for 82 yards on 12 carries, but also sustained a knee injury that forced him to miss the final four games. He was on his way toward carving out a role in 2015, with 21 receptions for 215 yards through the first three games, but he tore his ACL, MCL and patellar tendon on a kickoff return.
"It was really hard," Dunbar said. "Just throughout my career, every time I got an opportunity -- and I made the best of it -- something bad goes wrong."
Dunbar was ready to go by the start of the 2016 season, returning a lot sooner than expected, but he never felt right. He admitted to rushing his way back and said he didn't really feel right until about midway through the season. By then, Ezekiel Elliott was well on his way toward a dominant rookie season and the Cowboys' offense was rolling without him. Dunbar never had a chance, and now he's starting fresh.
He believes his style can complement Gurley.
"My style is different than his," Dunbar said. "I'm more of a slasher, making guys miss, catching the ball out of the backfield. We have two different styles. If you mix my style with his style, it brings a lot to the table. It's hard for people to keep switching up, switching up, because it's very different. In-game, when I come in, you're going to have to adjust. And it's kind of hard to adjust in-game."
ESPN Washington Redskins reporter John Keim contributed to this report.Garrett W. Ellwood/NBAE/Getty Images
Ibrahim Jaaber, a candidate for the fifth guard spot, is in a unique position with L.A.'s summer league team.
Playing on a Summer League team doesn't mean the same thing for every player on the floor. Some are first-round picks from this year or previous drafts with guaranteed contracts and plenty of buzz. Others are second- and third-year players, or second-round picks and former NBA'ers hoping to impress enough to stick on a roster. The majority, however, are free agents. Former college stars who have played either in the D-League or overseas, some sounding more familiar than others. (Among the more commonly heard sentiments when fans and media pull up a roster is "Hey, that guy!")
Ibrahim Jaaber, currently running the point for the Lakers and making at least a theoretical push for L.A.'s fifth guard slot, is in the latter group. Once a star at Penn, he has played the last two seasons in Italy, picking up a Bulgarian passport along the way and playing for their national team.
The value of becoming a naturalized citizen for a European team -- he now has dual citizenship -- has enormous financial value for Jaaber, allowing him to earn substantially more playing overseas than he can on a minimum deal in the NBA. It's a situation changing completely the context of his situation with the Lakers, as does the responsibility he feels to his family. “A lot of people don’t know I’ve got 12 brothers and sisters. So I try not to be selfish in my decision making. When I say secure my future, I’m not talking just about myself, I talk about the people around me I have the part of helping," he says.
I spoke to him for a few minutes after Tuesday's game about his situation, and more.
How did you end up playing for Bulgaria? As a naturalized Bulgarian citizen? Because you don’t look particularly Bulgarian.
“How did that happen? I had some success when I was in Greece. [The Bulgarian] national team coach [liked me.] It really was an opportunity that came to me. They wanted me as a naturalized citzen, to do some services and whatever. It was a good opportunity to secure a passport.”
(Note: Neither Jaaber nor his agent John Spencer was particularly interested providing much detail about the process. Not that I'm suggesting it wasn't on the up-and-up, but like many things in international basketball, I was left with a distinct impression the process was... quirky. But it's not uncommon for American players to secure foreign passports, because the financial incentives are strong.)
That helps you playing overseas? In terms of your value?
“Yeah. Definitely, because you become a commodity as a European player. Some teams get to have an extra American so to speak. That’s my value overseas. It’s really difficult trying to get into the league now, my value has a higher stock over there. Really I came out here to try and have some fun, but I think I’ll probably be looking back over the water.”
Do you like playing over there?
“Yeah, it’s real good. Beneficial. I would really enjoy playing over here, but I think financially to secure my future, it’s better to get the money while it’s available."
You’ve been in Italy for the last two seasons?
“Yeah.”
Do you think that’s where you’ll end up again?
“I haven’t really decided. A lot of options on the table. I’ll sit down with my team and go through the standard procedures.”
When people watch these games, do you think they understand the situation? How so many of the guys out here are playing with a different context?
"I don’t think they do, because they see guys out here. It’s like the basketball farm, the NBA dream everyone’s chasing. A lot of these guys have the opportunity, like I do, to go overseas and probably make more than the league minimum, but they do have the dream. And more power to them, if it’s what they want to do. Go for it. But I don’t think people would look at me and say this is [his actual situation]. They’d just see the basketball player chasing the NBA dream.”
It's not simply his unusual status as a dual US/Bulgarian citizen making Jaaber a unique presence. He told me about his interest in writing poetry and music, and how, while he's obviously interested in playing against the best competition at the highest level, perhaps the most appealing aspect of playing in the NBA is the platform it would provide to engage in what he described as "social change. Community involvement. Rebuilding communities."
Not surprising from a sociology major.
In the end, Jaaber likely goes down as a footnote in a part of the season generally seen as a footnote to the larger one, a name die-hard fans remember but most don't. Still, for the short time guys like him are in the Lakers' orbit, it's worth taking note.BILBAO, Spain -- Australian forward Joe Ingles didn't just spark his team Tuesday to a valuable Group D win over Lit‎huania in the Canary Islands.
He also played himself closer to his NBA dream.
According to NBA front-office sources, Ingles has emerged as a virtual lock to land in the league this coming season -- likely on a guaranteed deal -- on the strength of his strong play here at the 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup.
Ingles impressed at the 2012 London Olympics as well but, at 26, is still waiting to make his NBA breakthrough. He played at Maccabi Tel Aviv last season for new Cleveland Cavaliers coach David Blatt but is currently u‎nattached after an underwhelming season in Israel.
But Ingles has been an impact player back on the world stage, leading the Aussies with 18 points Tuesday in an important 82-75 triumph over Lithuania, whose status as Group D favorites was endangered even before the defeat thanks to the loss of point guard Mantas Kalnietis to a serious shoulder injury mere days before the World Cup started.
The Philadelphia 76ers, sources say, are indeed one of the handful of NBA teams pursuing Ingles, which is a natural given that Ingles' former national team coach -- Brett Brown -- is now the Sixers' coach. But one source briefed on Ingles' thinking said Tuesday that the 6-foot-8 perimeter specialist is unlikely to sign with Philly.
The Memphis Grizzlies are another team that has expressed interest in Ingles in the past. Ingles played at Barcelona with Grizzlies star center Marc Gasol, who is widely known to be one of Ingles' biggest fans.
The Grizzlies also just waived Jamaal Franklin on Sunday to create a little more roster room, but Memphis has to keep an eye on where it is in relation to luxury-tax territory. The Griz, at present, are $1.2 million under the tax line. Ingles would cost them $915,000 next season, which would obviously put them in tax range.Today, EA Sports has unveiled the NBA LIVE 16 Spotify Playlist on their newly launched NBA LIVE Spotify Profile. The 13 song playlist, curated by world-renowned DJ and cultural tastemaker, MICK, includes well-known artists like Travi$ Scott, Kendrick Lamar, 2 Chainz and Busta Rhymes, as well as, rising artists like Hudson Mohawke, Nick Catchdubs and Hoodboi. MICK gave ESPN Music the inside scoop on how the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack was born and the importance of music in the realm of gaming.
MICK is deemed one of the most in-demand DJ talents in the world having spun exclusive events for celebrities and bands including Lebron James, Rihanna, Spotify, Adidas, Twitter, Beyonce, Entertainment Weekly and of course, EA Sports. The Ohio native, Brooklyn-based, Celtics mega fan, is a lover of all things NBA. So much so, that the NBA recognized MICK as an official Social Influencer and invited him to Game 4 of the NBA Finals last year. While MICK's general involvement with NBA LIVE comes as no surprise, his rise to become EA Sports' go-to Music Curator for the game was and is quite the accomplishment. Courtesy Aliya Naumoff
"Over the years of my career, the EA brand and the MICK brand have intersected at various times. Throughout those intersections, it became an actual real collaboration and there's a mutual respect for what both of us do in our own worlds." MICK continued, "the vibe of my personal music taste, as well as my knowledge of what the gamer fanbase likes, plays really well with what we try to do with NBA LIVE."
The Spotify playlist gives fans a taste of what's to come for the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack. The in-game soundtrack will debut exclusive tracks from Kill The Noise & Madsonik, Your Old Droog, OverDoz, R. City and Shirt. MICK stressed the importance of working with artists who understand what he and EA Sports is trying to do. NBA Live is such a tremendous platform to introduce new music, they try to align their efforts with those of the artists in order to cross-promote as much as possible. MICK went on to tell ESPN Music:
"A lot of the artists on the soundtrack are people who I have professional and personal relationships with and have really had significant growth in their careers. I've known Skyzoo forever and for him to still be relevant and do what he's doing is awesome, so I wanted to make sure we had him in the game. I love Shirt. He's a fantastic dude and his buzz is great. I've been trying to get him in the game for the past few years and this year we finally made it happen. I've known Illa J, J Dilla's brother, for a really long time and he's done a really nice reinvention of himself as a solo artist so i'm really excited to have him in the game. 'All Good, Pt. 2' is actually one of my favorite songs on the soundtrack."
For MICK, who grew up a gamer, things have come full circle with NBA LIVE. Music plays an integral part of the overall gameplay experience and Mick made sure to stay true to that as he crafted the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack.
"In my opinion, besides the graphics and gameplay, music is one of the most important parts of a game because we live in a media-entrenched, 360 society. Everything is all media, all sensory, all the time. So we have to make sure that when people are playing, they're hearing stuff they like, stuff the want, stuff that ties into their sensibility" said Mick. "We strive to make sure every time you play that game, there's something going on whether it's the music, the graphics, a player, a team. There's something going on visually and sonically that really keeps you involved in the game."
The soundtrack seamlessly fits in this edition of the game. MICK was accurately able to reflect the current music landscape and hip-hop association with the game of basketball.
"The synergy between music and sports is very tied-in, it's very much two sides of the same coin. With basketball and hip-hop, it's like a true, super synergy. Everyone chooses to express themselves creatively, whether it's athletically or artistically. They want to listen to music while they're playing basketball, it really inspires them and really gets them to perform at their best... whether they're on the couch with a controller in their hand or they're on a court. That's why music is so important. It's our job to make sure we're staying really authentic to that and picking music that's energetic and keeps you in the game. It has to be stuff that's real and true. It can't be some corny, Top 40 stuff that we know Russell Westbrook isn't listening to when he's warming up. It has to be something real and that's what I strive for with my curation." - MICK
Fans will be able to hear the full soundtrack on September 15th when the free demo is released on Playstation Network and Xbox Live, as well as, when the game launches on September 29th.
For more information on MICK, follow him on Twitter and Facebook.Today, EA Sports has unveiled the NBA LIVE 16 Spotify Playlist on their newly launched NBA LIVE Spotify Profile. The 13 song playlist, curated by world-renowned DJ and cultural tastemaker, MICK, includes well-known artists like Travi$ Scott, Kendrick Lamar, 2 Chainz and Busta Rhymes, as well as, rising artists like Hudson Mohawke, Nick Catchdubs and Hoodboi. MICK gave ESPN Music the inside scoop on how the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack was born and the importance of music in the realm of gaming.
MICK is deemed one of the most in-demand DJ talents in the world having spun exclusive events for celebrities and bands including Lebron James, Rihanna, Spotify, Adidas, Twitter, Beyonce, Entertainment Weekly and of course, EA Sports. The Ohio native, Brooklyn-based, Celtics mega fan, is a lover of all things NBA. So much so, that the NBA recognized MICK as an official Social Influencer and invited him to Game 4 of the NBA Finals last year. While MICK's general involvement with NBA LIVE comes as no surprise, his rise to become EA Sports' go-to Music Curator for the game was and is quite the accomplishment. Courtesy Aliya Naumoff
"Over the years of my career, the EA brand and the MICK brand have intersected at various times. Throughout those intersections, it became an actual real collaboration and there's a mutual respect for what both of us do in our own worlds." MICK continued, "the vibe of my personal music taste, as well as my knowledge of what the gamer fanbase likes, plays really well with what we try to do with NBA LIVE."
The Spotify playlist gives fans a taste of what's to come for the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack. The in-game soundtrack will debut exclusive tracks from Kill The Noise & Madsonik, Your Old Droog, OverDoz, R. City and Shirt. MICK stressed the importance of working with artists who understand what he and EA Sports is trying to do. NBA Live is such a tremendous platform to introduce new music, they try to align their efforts with those of the artists in order to cross-promote as much as possible. MICK went on to tell ESPN Music:
"A lot of the artists on the soundtrack are people who I have professional and personal relationships with and have really had significant growth in their careers. I've known Skyzoo forever and for him to still be relevant and do what he's doing is awesome, so I wanted to make sure we had him in the game. I love Shirt. He's a fantastic dude and his buzz is great. I've been trying to get him in the game for the past few years and this year we finally made it happen. I've known Illa J, J Dilla's brother, for a really long time and he's done a really nice reinvention of himself as a solo artist so i'm really excited to have him in the game. 'All Good, Pt. 2' is actually one of my favorite songs on the soundtrack."
For MICK, who grew up a gamer, things have come full circle with NBA LIVE. Music plays an integral part of the overall gameplay experience and Mick made sure to stay true to that as he crafted the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack.
"In my opinion, besides the graphics and gameplay, music is one of the most important parts of a game because we live in a media-entrenched, 360 society. Everything is all media, all sensory, all the time. So we have to make sure that when people are playing, they're hearing stuff they like, stuff the want, stuff that ties into their sensibility" said Mick. "We strive to make sure every time you play that game, there's something going on whether it's the music, the graphics, a player, a team. There's something going on visually and sonically that really keeps you involved in the game."
The soundtrack seamlessly fits in this edition of the game. MICK was accurately able to reflect the current music landscape and hip-hop association with the game of basketball.
"The synergy between music and sports is very tied-in, it's very much two sides of the same coin. With basketball and hip-hop, it's like a true, super synergy. Everyone chooses to express themselves creatively, whether it's athletically or artistically. They want to listen to music while they're playing basketball, it really inspires them and really gets them to perform at their best... whether they're on the couch with a controller in their hand or they're on a court. That's why music is so important. It's our job to make sure we're staying really authentic to that and picking music that's energetic and keeps you in the game. It has to be stuff that's real and true. It can't be some corny, Top 40 stuff that we know Russell Westbrook isn't listening to when he's warming up. It has to be something real and that's what I strive for with my curation." - MICK
Fans will be able to hear the full soundtrack on September 15th when the free demo is released on Playstation Network and Xbox Live, as well as, when the game launches on September 29th.
For more information on MICK, follow him on Twitter and Facebook.Today, EA Sports has unveiled the NBA LIVE 16 Spotify Playlist on their newly launched NBA LIVE Spotify Profile. The 13 song playlist, curated by world-renowned DJ and cultural tastemaker, MICK, includes well-known artists like Travi$ Scott, Kendrick Lamar, 2 Chainz and Busta Rhymes, as well as, rising artists like Hudson Mohawke, Nick Catchdubs and Hoodboi. MICK gave ESPN Music the inside scoop on how the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack was born and the importance of music in the realm of gaming.
MICK is deemed one of the most in-demand DJ talents in the world having spun exclusive events for celebrities and bands including Lebron James, Rihanna, Spotify, Adidas, Twitter, Beyonce, Entertainment Weekly and of course, EA Sports. The Ohio native, Brooklyn-based, Celtics mega fan, is a lover of all things NBA. So much so, that the NBA recognized MICK as an official Social Influencer and invited him to Game 4 of the NBA Finals last year. While MICK's general involvement with NBA LIVE comes as no surprise, his rise to become EA Sports' go-to Music Curator for the game was and is quite the accomplishment. Courtesy Aliya Naumoff
"Over the years of my career, the EA brand and the MICK brand have intersected at various times. Throughout those intersections, it became an actual real collaboration and there's a mutual respect for what both of us do in our own worlds." MICK continued, "the vibe of my personal music taste, as well as my knowledge of what the gamer fanbase likes, plays really well with what we try to do with NBA LIVE."
The Spotify playlist gives fans a taste of what's to come for the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack. The in-game soundtrack will debut exclusive tracks from Kill The Noise & Madsonik, Your Old Droog, OverDoz, R. City and Shirt. MICK stressed the importance of working with artists who understand what he and EA Sports is trying to do. NBA Live is such a tremendous platform to introduce new music, they try to align their efforts with those of the artists in order to cross-promote as much as possible. MICK went on to tell ESPN Music:
"A lot of the artists on the soundtrack are people who I have professional and personal relationships with and have really had significant growth in their careers. I've known Skyzoo forever and for him to still be relevant and do what he's doing is awesome, so I wanted to make sure we had him in the game. I love Shirt. He's a fantastic dude and his buzz is great. I've been trying to get him in the game for the past few years and this year we finally made it happen. I've known Illa J, J Dilla's brother, for a really long time and he's done a really nice reinvention of himself as a solo artist so i'm really excited to have him in the game. 'All Good, Pt. 2' is actually one of my favorite songs on the soundtrack."
For MICK, who grew up a gamer, things have come full circle with NBA LIVE. Music plays an integral part of the overall gameplay experience and Mick made sure to stay true to that as he crafted the NBA LIVE 16 soundtrack.
"In my opinion, besides the graphics and gameplay, music is one of the most important parts of a game because we live in a media-entrenched, 360 society. Everything is all media, all sensory, all the time. So we have to make sure that when people are playing, they're hearing stuff they like, stuff the want, stuff that ties into their sensibility" said Mick. "We strive to make sure every time you play that game, there's something going on whether it's the music, the graphics, a player, a team. There's something going on visually and sonically that really keeps you involved in the game."
The soundtrack seamlessly fits in this edition of the game. MICK was accurately able to reflect the current music landscape and hip-hop association with the game of basketball.
"The synergy between music and sports is very tied-in, it's very much two sides of the same coin. With basketball and hip-hop, it's like a true, super synergy. Everyone chooses to express themselves creatively, whether it's athletically or artistically. They want to listen to music while they're playing basketball, it really inspires them and really gets them to perform at their best... whether they're on the couch with a controller in their hand or they're on a court. That's why music is so important. It's our job to make sure we're staying really authentic to that and picking music that's energetic and keeps you in the game. It has to be stuff that's real and true. It can't be some corny, Top 40 stuff that we know Russell Westbrook isn't listening to when he's warming up. It has to be something real and that's what I strive for with my curation." - MICK
Fans will be able to hear the full soundtrack on September 15th when the free demo is released on Playstation Network and Xbox Live, as well as, when the game launches on September 29th.
For more information on MICK, follow him on Twitter and Facebook.Due to budget cuts (a theme in the grassroots world this year), the Jordan Brand Classic was significantly compressed this year compared with years past. Both the regional and international games, which were beloved by NBA scouts and draftniks alike, were canceled, and just one day of practice was conducted, compared with the usual two. This lessened the intrigue of the event to a degree, and the turnout of NBA scouts. It may have also been reflected in the relatively smaller crowd that attended the game, which was partially due to the absence of a marquee halftime performer, as in previous editions.
It didn’t help that injuries and withdrawals took a bite out of the roster as well, with the likes of R.J. Barrett, Zion Williamson, Keldon Johnson and Jalen Carey unable to participate.
Nevertheless, this was a good opportunity to get eyes on a number of players who weren’t invited to the McDonald’s All-American or Nike Hoop Summit events, which we covered in Atlanta and will cover in Portland this upcoming week.TORONTO -- NBA scouts gathered in the greater Toronto area to evaluate the top young prospects in Canada this past weekend at the fourth-annual Biosteel All-Canadian game. Twenty-four of 30 NBA teams were credentialed to the game, with close to 10 scouting the practices, scrimmages and futures game at Athlete Institute an hour outside of Toronto.
The Biosteel alumni list is strong, with NBA youngsters Jamal Murray and Thon Maker having played in the 2015 game. While not in the same breath as the Nike Hoop Summit, McDonald’s All-American game or Jordan Brand Classic, the Biosteel game continues to churn out intriguing prospects from Canadian basketball, which is gaining steam on a global scale.
Some of the elite-level prospects, such as R.J. Barrett, weren’t able to attend because of Nike Hoop Summit and the rise of the Signature All-Canadian Showcase, but there were still at least a handful of players who project as long-term NBA prospects.Due to budget cuts (a theme in the grassroots world this year), the Jordan Brand Classic was significantly compressed this year compared with years past. Both the regional and international games, which were beloved by NBA scouts and draftniks alike, were canceled, and just one day of practice was conducted, compared with the usual two. This lessened the intrigue of the event to a degree, and the turnout of NBA scouts. It may have also been reflected in the relatively smaller crowd that attended the game, which was partially due to the absence of a marquee halftime performer, as in previous editions.
It didn’t help that injuries and withdrawals took a bite out of the roster as well, with the likes of R.J. Barrett, Zion Williamson, Keldon Johnson and Jalen Carey unable to participate.
Nevertheless, this was a good opportunity to get eyes on a number of players who weren’t invited to the McDonald’s All-American or Nike Hoop Summit events, which we covered in Atlanta and will cover in Portland this upcoming week.TORONTO -- NBA scouts gathered in the greater Toronto area to evaluate the top young prospects in Canada this past weekend at the fourth-annual Biosteel All-Canadian game. Twenty-four of 30 NBA teams were credentialed to the game, with close to 10 scouting the practices, scrimmages and futures game at Athlete Institute an hour outside of Toronto.
The Biosteel alumni list is strong, with NBA youngsters Jamal Murray and Thon Maker having played in the 2015 game. While not in the same breath as the Nike Hoop Summit, McDonald’s All-American game or Jordan Brand Classic, the Biosteel game continues to churn out intriguing prospects from Canadian basketball, which is gaining steam on a global scale.
Some of the elite-level prospects, such as R.J. Barrett, weren’t able to attend because of Nike Hoop Summit and the rise of the Signature All-Canadian Showcase, but there were still at least a handful of players who project as long-term NBA prospects.AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -- Andre Drummond wore a look of frustration as he sat on the bench throughout the final moments of the Detroit Pistons' 101-91 Game 3 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers on Friday night.
Who could blame him?
Everybody knows the fatal flaw of his game. It's on display every night -- only now it's on a larger stage for the world to see: Drummond is a poor free throw shooter. Historically bad. He's shooting 38 percent from the free throw line for his career and is 6-for-24 over the three games of this series. The talented, young big man played only 93 seconds of the final 12 minutes of Friday's game. Coach Stan Van Gundy pulled Drummond for good after he was intentionally fouled and missed two more free throws with the Pistons down 90-86 with 6:02 remaining. He just sat there and watched as the Cavaliers closed the game, and probably the series, without him on the floor. The win gave Cleveland a 3-0 series lead.
About 20 minutes after the game ended, Van Gundy sat at the podium wearing a similar look of anguish as Drummond. For the third straight game, Dummond, the Pistons' best player, was a non-factor down the stretch. When asked about his decision to not bring Drummond back in the game late, Van Gundy vented his anger toward both the center and the entire situation.
"Yeah, because you can't do anything with him," Van Gundy said. "He can't run to set a screen, he can't do anything. You've just got opportunities to foul him. Now would they have [worked]? I don't know. But I gave him one possession -- we're behind. We can't go down and play for zero points. Even though we did, we just, we can't do that. He had energy, but [Cavs center] Tristan Thompson had eight offensive rebounds. Hardly a dominant performance."
Van Gundy was angry about the fact that his team was outrebounded by 14. He was mad his young squad is on the verge of elimination, and he's upset because nobody seems to have the right answer to fix the question that has torpedoed Drummond's effectiveness late in games as it pertains to the Hack-a-Shaq tactic.
Andre Drummond is just 6-for-24 from the foul line, including 1-for-6 on Friday night, through three games of the Pistons' playoff series with the Cavaliers. Tim Fuller/USA TODAY Sports
Van Gundy himself was asked about the issue earlier in the day. There seems to be momentum that the league may change the rule in the offseason, but to what? Nobody seems to know.
"You'd have to see what they do, what the change is, how the rule is written, and everything else," Van Gundy said after Friday's shootaround. "What we do as coaches is try to do whatever we can to win within the rulebook, so we'd have to see how it was written. My concern would be if they're going to change [the rule], they have to truly change it and you've got to make sure, you've really got to take some time and think of how coaches are going to get around it. And try to write the rule in such a way -- so you can say they just can't go grab guys.
"But now, if a guy, as he's running up to set a screen can just push him, and now that guy's on the line, well you really haven't accomplished anything with the rule. It all depends on how they write it. There could be things that really affect how people have to play those situations and take them away from being able to do it, or there could be cosmetic things that really don't have any effect and people will still be able to foul as much as they want."
For his part, Drummond seems stuck within the situation and admits it's "a little frustrating," sitting on the bench late in games, not being able to help his teammates.
"Stan knows what he's doing," Drummond said. "So I just try to do my part as a team player, cheer for my teammates. I don't control my minutes or what he does down the stretch in games. I just stay prepared and stay ready for when the moment comes."
Van Gundy can point to Drummond's seven rebounds, or Thompson's 10, or the fact that the Cavs set the tone defensively all he wants. There is merit to his points. But for the third playoff game in a row, Drummond was rendered a non-factor, at least in part, because he can't consistently make free throws. A star with so much talent is left watching other players finish games on the league's biggest stage.
"It's tough," Pistons guard Reggie Jackson admitted. "We understand we have one of our cornerstones just on the bench in tough stretches. Because they're going to the Hack-a-Shaq or whatever you want to call it, sending him to the line. It's been tough on him. He's trying to remain confident, of course, always putting in work and trying to find a way to affect the game in other ways. It's a call that Coach is making to try and give ourselves a chance. We've been trying to figure it out, how to get around it and beat them."
The problem for the Pistons is that they haven't figured out an answer. Trying to beat the Cavs with LeBron James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love all playing at a high level is a tall task. Trying to beat Cleveland without Drummond playing a major role is a near impossibility.
"We're trying to figure out any way to combat it," Jackson continued. "But as a team we found a way to overcome adversity all season despite who's on the court, who may not be, and we've been getting it done collectively. [Drummond's] definitely a big essential part of what we do, the centerpiece of what we do and trying to find him more minutes, of course. I'm sure Coach is trying to find ways to keep him on the court and keep him effective because I think it's been noted and he's shown that he's really neutralizing their team when they have their bigs on the court as well."
Drummond can't neutralize anybody when he's on the bench -- except his own team's effectiveness. The Pistons have known this all season, but the lesson has been hammered home even more this week. As far as the future goes and whether or not the league is intent on changing the rule -- and by proxy helping Drummond and the Pistons out of their own self-created rut -- remains to be seen. Van Gundy wishes he had the right answer, but after watching his team falter down the stretch without its best player on the floor, he's got to wish he didn't even have to contemplate the question.
"To me, what it comes down to one way or another, and what it should come down to is the fans," Van Gundy said of a potential rule change. "If they like it, then we should keep it the way it is. If they don't, we should make a change. That's, to me, what it comes down to."
Van Gundy must hope that basketball fans get sick of watching one of the game's best young players finish games on the bench instead of on the floor.Isaiah Thomas scores 42 points to lead the Celtics to a much-needed 111-103 victory over the Hawks to win Game 3 and cut Atlanta's series lead to 2-1. (1:24)
BOSTON –- Friday night's Game 3 between the Atlanta Hawks and Boston Celtics had yet to begin and TD Garden already sounded a tad like it did in years past, when Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett and even Antoine Walker wore the green and white and led Boston deep into the conference playoffs.
The place was loud and electric. It had the feeling of this potentially being Boston’s last stand. Players from both teams were scrapping and flying all over the floor. There were technical and flagrant fouls whistled. Isaiah Thomas made big shots -- and even appeared to take one at Dennis Schroder’s face -- during a career-high 42-point night while leading the Celtics to a season-saving 111-103 victory.
Kyle Korver had forewarned of this.
Days earlier in Atlanta -- after the Hawks had forged a 2-0 lead in this best-of-seven -- Korver delivered his forecast for Game 3. He saw the Hawks having to step into what sounded like a perfect storm.
“Boston has a lot of pride,” Korver said. “There is a lot of pride in the Celtics, in the logo, in the uniform, in the history. There’s like a power, a superpower in it, almost. I know their fans are going to be amazing. It is a great sports town. It is going to be rocking. They are going to try to give us their best shot.”
Try? The Celtics came out and punched the Hawks basketball-wise and literally got physical with Schroder. Boston finally got off to a good start, turning the tables on the Hawks with a 37-20 first-period explosion.
During the first two games of this series, Atlanta outscored the Celtics by a staggering total of 54-26 in the first quarters combined. Boston was just 10-for-49 shooting, including a nightmarish 1-for-15 from behind the 3-point arc in those two first quarters in Atlanta.
The Hawks' Dennis Schroder wasn't pleased about a shot he took to the face from Isaiah Thomas, who sparked the Celtics to a season-saving win. David Butler II/USA TODAY Sports
But here, in front of their home crowd, the Celtics made 12 of their first 21 shots. More important was that Thomas finally escaped the clutches of the Hawks' defense, scoring 16 points in the first quarter.
Boston coach Brad Stevens made his biggest adjustments yet, starting Evan Turner and Jonas Jerebko and having Marcus Smart and Turner handle the ball a bit more while letting Thomas play off the ball.
The result was Thomas adding his name to Celtics playoff lore.
But here’s the thing: The Hawks actually are probably feeling good about things. Even though the Celtics led 64-45 with 10:43 left in the third quarter, Atlanta erased that deficit before the quarter was over.
The Hawks took the Celtics’ best shot of this series so far and fought back. The fourth quarter was thrilling, with the teams trading 3-pointers and difficult shots in traffic. The game was tied three times in the fourth, but Thomas proved to be too good on this night.
He scored 11 of his points in the fourth, including burying a 25-foot bomb right in front of Jeff Teague with 1:53 left to push Boston up seven.
“Allen Iverson just said keep fighting,” Thomas said of a text exchange he had with the former Sixers great. “They did what they were supposed to do in Atlanta.”
And now Boston has done what it was supposed to do by holding court in its first home game of the series. The Celtics blew a 19-point lead in less than a quarter. (The Hawks blew as big a lead in Game 1.) But Boston needed the biggest night of Thomas’ career to pull this one out. Thomas had to make some sensational shots.
“Optimistic,” Hawks swingman Kent Bazemore said when asked how the team felt in the locker room after Friday's loss. “It was going to be tough to sweep this team anyway. Being down 2-0 and them having a home game, we knew they were going to put up a fight. We know that we’ve got to do a lot better; our defense wasn’t where it should have been for a chunk of a game."
“We played as well as we could have, I thought,” Bazemore added. “But paying attention to detail, some things we did in the first two games, we didn’t do tonight. The fact that we gave ourselves a chance, there aren’t moral victories at this time of the year, but it’s the fact that we erased that 19-point deficit, actually went up and had a good chance to win the game.”
And that is why the Hawks should feel confident going into Game 4. Make no mistake, the Celtics have made this a series again. But the Hawks know that when they play the kind of defense they are capable of, when they open with the type of urgency they had in Atlanta and move the ball and attack Boston, they can steal one here and put themselves in position to clinch the series at home.
Korver, who caught fire and made three treys in the first four-plus minutes of the fourth quarter before getting in foul trouble, knows Boston and its hard-core fans will be even more fired up on Sunday night with the chance to tie the series up.
But the Hawks didn’t wilt on Friday night until Thomas put the finishing touches on a career night.
“We felt confident during the game that we were going to come back and win,” Korver said. “There is a lot of pride in Boston, in the Celtic jersey, in the tradition here. We knew they would have an amazing crowd and would try to feed off that, and they did.
But, Korver added, “We still had our chances.”AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -- Stan Van Gundy's frustration with Andre Drummond's inability to consistently make free throws has hovered over both men into the playoffs. After sitting Drummond for the final 6:02 of Friday night's Game 3 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers, Van Gundy admitted that the young big man's inability to make free throws is a "problem."
When asked after Saturday's film session why he didn't reinsert Drummond into the game with less than two minutes to play when intentionally fouling a player is more punitive, the Detroit Pistons' coach didn't hesitate.
"You also can't throw him the ball," the veteran coach said. "Unless you throw a lob, you can't throw him the ball. And so you think about keeping him in on the offensive boards, but everything's going to have to be a tip-in. Because [Cavs coach] Ty [Lue] was pissed off one time in Game 2 when Andre got a rebound and they didn't tie him up. So that's just something we're going to have to deal with. But he's 5-for-22 [from the foul line] in the last two games, so I'm not riding that out. I'm just not.
"I'm just not riding that out. Clearly, its the way I played the last part of the year, too. It's just -- even to bring him back in the last two minutes, your options are limited. It's a problem. It really is."
Andre Drummond is 5-for-22 from the free throw line in the past two games, forcing coach Stan Van Gundy to sit the star center in crunch time. Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images
Aside from Drummond's struggles at the foul line, Van Gundy was also very upset that the Pistons were out-rebounded by 14 on Friday and pointed out that Cavs big man Tristan Thompson had eight offensive rebounds, while discussing Drummond's performance.
Drummond tried to stay positive in a postgame media session, but he has been rendered a non-factor late in games throughout the series because Van Gundy doesn't want to leave him on the floor and run the risk of the Cavs continually sending him to the line.
Van Gundy is hopeful his team will salvage at least a game of the series and avoid a sweep in Game 4 on Sunday night.
"I just told them that tomorrow's going to be a real test of their mental toughness," Van Gundy said of the message he gave to his team. "It's tough at 0-3 and when you get into the game it will be tough. Cleveland makes a run; are you going to stay the course and everything else? I have not been in this situation. I've been on the other side of it. And I've seen teams that give a good effort but then you make a run on them, you get them down a little and they just sort of go away because there's not a great belief that they can still win the series and they let it go. So that's what we're fighting against.
"Our team was really, really ready to play last night and I thought played hard and were mentally focused and into the game and the whole thing. And to get back to that level again of mental preparation and focus and bringing that energy will be a challenge [Sunday] night, but I also put it to them in a very positive way. And I've said this several times: This has been a very, very resilient team all year. And I've got great faith that they will meet the challenge and come and play really, really hard [Sunday]. They've done a good job -- this season has been a big step forward for them and for our organization. And getting a win [Sunday] would be another big step forward for us, so we have a lot to play for."BOSTON -- Dennis Schroder not only was angry about getting hit in the face by Isaiah Thomas, he also had to deal with the wrath of Mike Budenholzer in Friday night's Game 3 as well.
It’s hard to say which one might be worse for Schroder. On one side, Thomas was in the midst of having a career night, scoring 42 points to help the Boston Celtics get on the board with a 111-103 win and trim the Atlanta Hawks' lead to 2-1 in this best-of-seven series.
But on the other side, Schroder had his coach upset over what Budenholzer might have initially thought was his emotional point guard losing his cool and getting caught up in unnecessary trash talking.
"Dennis is great because he is so competitive and I think he brings a great edge to our team," Hawks coach Mike Budenholzer said of backup point guard Dennis Schroder. David Butler II/USA TODAY Sports
Schroder and Thomas were going at each other in the first quarter, resulting in double technical fouls with 1:27 left in the quarter. Moments before that, Thomas took a shot at Schroder’s face as they went back down court after a score.
Budenholzer did not initially see Thomas’ shot at Schroder, but he did see how his backup point guard reacted and how he was engaged emotionally and verbally with Thomas. The league would later assess Thomas with a flagrant one foul on Saturday, but no suspension for the incident.
“[Initially] he was kind of [ticked] off at me during the game,” Schroder said of Budenholzer. “But then he apologized. He couldn’t see [the Thomas incident].
“I talked back [to Thomas] and [Budenholzer] didn’t see the situation that happened before,” Schroder continued. “He don’t like that kind of play. He wants me to compete and that I don’t talk back.”
Now that Thomas won’t be suspended and the incident is behind them, the Hawks go into Game 4 looking for Schroder to be as aggressive as he was in Game 3 but without overstepping the emotional line.
He scored 20 points off the bench, hitting 8 of 14 shots, and put consistent pressure on the Celtics' defense. Schroder attacked the rim and helped the Hawks erase a 19-point deficit in the third quarter.
Budenholzer knows that Schroder, 22, can feed off emotion like he did on Friday night, not only from the incident with Thomas but also the hostile Boston crowd.
He just wants Schroder to be able to control his emotions and be professional, too.
“Dennis is great because he is so competitive and I think he brings a great edge to our team,” Budenholzer said. “He and I walk this fine line, or a little bit of a dance. I think there is a way to compete and keep your focus and go out and obviously you want to have success.
“And there is a way that we would like our team to handle ourselves and to be ultra-competitive, but I would say ultra-classy and ultra-professional,” Budenholzer continued. “I think Dennis, as a young player, is just learning that balance, and at some point I probably have to give him a little leash and that is part of what makes him a really good player. But he knows how we want to conduct and handle ourselves.”
Schroder said he felt “disrespected” by Thomas but he vows it won’t affect him in Game 4.
“It happened,” Schroder said. “I still feel disrespected [over] what he did, [but] I still will try to win the game tomorrow and focus on the game. … [Thomas] is competitive, too. Tomorrow will be a different game.”INDIANAPOLIS -- The Toronto Raptors had a chance to put a stranglehold on their first-round series with the Indiana Pacers, and they blew it.
The Raptors failed to match the intensity of the desperate Pacers from the jump and were routed by Indiana 100-83 in Game 4 on Saturday afternoon at Bankers Life Fieldhouse.
“We didn’t come out with the right disposition in a game where [the Pacers'] backs were against the wall,” Raptors coach Dwane Casey said, trying to take the heat off of his players. “They knew they had to get this game, and we talked about it. But we can’t talk about it; we have to go out and do it on the floor, and we didn’t meet their force with our force.”
Once again, the main source of frustration was the inability of DeMar DeRozan and Kyle Lowry to make shots. They went a combined 8-for-27 from the field -- including 0-for-7 from 3-point range. For the series, the Toronto guards are shooting a combined 30.8 percent.
“To be honest, I feel like the shots DeMar and me are taking we’ve made all year,” Lowry said. “They’re just not falling right now, but I’m not going to shy away from taking them, and neither is DeMar. Tip of the hat: They’re scheming for me and DeMar, and they’re making shots tougher. But at the end of the day, we’ve still got to make shots.”
Lowry found himself in early foul trouble and totaled 12 points and six assists before being disqualified late in the fourth quarter, while DeRozan had just eight points and did not get to the free throw line for the second time this series.
While Lowry has found a way to affect the game in other ways -- whether it be as a facilitator or havoc creator on defense -- DeRozan has frequently been looking to do too much on offense and trying to force contested shots against All-NBA defender Paul George, instead of making better decisions. In Game 4, the Pacers contested all 15 of DeRozan’s shots, according to ESPN Stats & Information research, and he made just four.
The blanketing defense of Paul George was a key factor in Raptors star DeMar DeRozan making just 4 of 15 shots in Saturday's Game 4. Brian Spurlock/USA TODAY Sports
“I wasn’t going to fuss or complain about the foul calls,” DeRozan said. “I was just trying to go out there and play and still be aggressive. I’m not going to shy away; I’m going to continue to get to the basket and try to draw fouls like I normally do, but I can’t cry over it. I’m not going to whine about it. I’ll figure it out.”
The Pacers took a 7-0 lead at the start, led by 12 at the end of the first quarter and were up as many as 25 in the second. Then they tried to let the Raptors back into the game, but Toronto couldn’t make any shots. The Raptors went 8-for-30 from 3-point range and missed nine uncontested triples, according to ESPN Stats & Information data. They shot 36.5 percent from the field overall.
Turnovers also proved to be a killer. Toronto had 17, which Indiana turned into 25 points. In one second-quarter sequence, George Hill made a layup, Jonas Valanciunas threw the ensuing inbounds pass to Ty Lawson and Lawson proceed to drain a jumper, giving the Pacers a 51-28 lead.
Indiana’s supporting cast finally stepped up in support of George (19 points on 6-for-16 shooting), with Ian Mahinmi and Hill each dropping in 22 points.
Meanwhile, Luis Scola (one point, 0-for-4 on 3s) was ineffective for the Raptors, and Casey might need to go in a different direction at the 4 spot, perhaps by going smaller. Norman Powell (10 points) gave Toronto plenty of energy and possibly deserves more playing time.
This is now a best-of-three series. Casey put the onus on himself to get Lowry and DeRozan better looks, but at some point the All-Star backcourt needs to put the ball in the basket themselves. Otherwise, it would be a good idea to get Valanciunas (16 points, 6-for-7 FGs) more touches inside.
“I’m positive. I’m confident, we’re staying level -- not getting too high or too low,” Lowry said. “And that’s one thing that we’ve been preaching throughout the whole season. We’ve just got to stay within ourselves. We’ve got to learn from tonight and get better. And that’s one thing we’ve done all year: We’ve always come back and gotten better.”
There's no better time than Tuesday night’s Game 5 to prove it again.OAKLAND, Calif. -- Damian Lillard's baritone voice was raw and scratchy as he explained the importance of making life more difficult for the defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors. Coming off three games in three cities over a 96-hour period, in addition to celebrating his grandfather's 80th birthday with his family in Oakland, Lillard has been a busy man. At some point during that whirlwind, he came down with a chest cold, and it's unknown whether it's one of those "it sounds worse than it is" maladies. Against the Warriors, you can never quite tell how much of the sickness is virulent and how much of it is just dispiriting.
"At this point, we're just trying to fix things and make sure that our season keeps going," Lillard said.
Tests on the Trail Blazers' 118-106 loss to the Warriors in their conference semifinals series opener reveal a range of symptoms that add up to very bad news for Portland. Though the Trail Blazers acquitted themselves last week in closing out a short-handed Los Angeles Clippers squad in the first round, the Warriors -- with or without Stephen Curry -- present an expanded collection of complications.
For one, the Warriors on Sunday afternoon exposed a harsh reality the Trail Blazers can't change but merely compensate for: They're a small NBA team. In Lillard and C.J. McCollum, Portland features two dynamic ballhandling guards, neither of whom are taller than 6-foot-4. Their forwards Al-Farouq Aminu and Mo Harkless would each be classified as a small forward not so many years ago. And their nominal center, Mason Plumlee, isn't so much an interior presence as a "mobile big."
In the modern NBA, this configuration isn't so much a problem, and in the case of Portland it's an effective way to maximize space and speed. This dynamic won the Trail Blazers 44 games in what was to be a rebuilding season, but herein lies the trouble: Golden State preys on an opponent's weaknesses and its strengths. And the Warriors possess the ability to throw four starters at least 6-7 on the floor with one of the league's premier rim protectors.
"There are guys who can guard multiple positions and are the same size," Trail Blazers swingman Gerald Henderson said. "That's something you have to battle against. At the rim, they're not as good as maybe the Clippers are with [DeAndre] Jordan there, but they're always there, regardless if it's a big guy or not. Someone is always there to protect the basket and make you make a difficult shot or make a pass. We have to be cognizant of that."
Case in point, when Warriors center Andrew Bogut or multipositional Swiss Army knife Draymond Green were the primary defenders in Game 1, the Trail Blazers shot just 6-for-27 from the field, according to ESPN Stats & Information. For a team like the Trail Blazers that relies on screens for its guards against a team like the Warriors that isn't timid in switching its big guys onto those guards, it's problematic.
"They're smart," Henderson said. "Whenever we try to run Bogut up there, he's always switching on the smaller guy. They're smart. They've seen it before. We're not the only team that's tried to attack them that way. It's a chess game."
Damian Lillard scored 30 points but on just 8-of-26 shooting. Noah Graham/NBAE via Getty Images
Though the Trail Blazers were denied at the rim time and again, the size of the Warriors' backcourt might have been just as imposing as anything they saw at the rim. While he deflected any praise -- "It's not just me; our bigs did a phenomenal job today on the ball screen" -- Klay Thompson smothered Lillard, who hit only 2-of-13 shots when Thompson was his primary defender, according to ESPN Stats & Information. Likewise, Shaun Livingston's long limbs worked as trip wires against McCollum, and the Trail Blazers had trouble threading needles and finding angles in many of their second-sided actions in the half court.
And if challenging pick-and-roll coverage is chess, then rebounding is checkers, and here the Trail Blazers simply were dominated. The Warriors recovered 11 of their 25 misses before intermission, getting points even when they were stymied.
"We have to find shooters and prevent those second-chance [points]," McCollum said. "In the first half, they had 13 or 14 second-chance points. It's already hard enough to guard them in the 24-second shot clock. You can't give them those ample opportunities."
Old-school bully-ball also showcased Portland's undersized guards, whether it was Green backing in McCollum or Henderson, or Livingston driving his shoulder into Lillard's chest. Golden State's wings plus Green ran 10 post-ups (Bogut and Marreese Speights had zero), and the Warriors generated three buckets (including one and-1), four fouls and one turnover, per Synergy Sports.
While size is a distinct advantage for the Warriors, their overall playmaking might be even more of one. In the Trail Blazers' last series against the Clippers, Plumlee was encouraged to play the role of Green -- the consummate playmaking big out of the pick-and-roll. On Sunday, there was no substitute for the real thing. When Plumlee got caught up top guarding Thompson early in the first quarter, Green led his big guard go back door with a little drop pass against a Portland defense without rim protection. And when the cross-matches left the Portland transition defense scrambling, Green orchestrated Golden State's break.
"It's tough," McCollum said. "They do a good job of moving the ball. They're very unselfish."
Aminu and Harkless have made tremendous strides, but they have neither the finesse nor experience at this point in their young careers to serve as the fulcrum of the offense when Lillard and McCollum don't have it going. While Plumlee performed beautifully in a facilitator role against the Clippers, he hasn't yet developed the telepathy Bogut has with his crew -- witness the backdoor cut in the first quarter to collect a lob from Livingston off a back screen from Thompson.
Meanwhile, Thompson has four inches on McCollum and the choreography of the Warriors' half-court offense finds him all the space he needs. McCollum made specific mention of Golden State's guard-to-guard screens on pin-down sets that release Thompson for shots.
Watching Portland compete but never get within shouting distance of a Golden State team underscored just how massive its challenge. Success for an NBA team had traditionally required either size or finesse, versatility or specialism. Golden State boasts all of the above, with Curry or without.DeMar DeRozan scores 30 points to help the Raptors defeat the Pacers 89-84 in Game 7 of their first-round series. The win brings Toronto's first playoff series victory since 2001 and a matchup with Miami in the next round. (1:55)
TORONTO -- This time, Toronto Raptors general manager Masai Ujiri saved his best one-liner, which of course featured an expletive, for the end of the series.
“Where’s that f---ing monkey?” a euphoric Ujiri exclaimed repeatedly outside the team’s locker room.
After nearly 15 years, the monkey is finally off of the organization’s back. For the first time since May 4, 2001 -- a span of 5,476 days -- the Raptors have advanced to the second round of the NBA playoffs.
“There’s no hiding it,” Kyle Lowry told ESPN.com. “It was one of those wins where, if we had lost this game, the season would’ve been a failure. It’s kind of harsh to say that, but if we had lost this game, it would’ve been the end of the season. The pressure of the first round is off of us.”
The Indiana Pacers took Toronto to the limit in Game 7 on Sunday at Air Canada Centre, and the Raptors nearly blew a 16-point, fourth-quarter lead before hanging on to win 89-84 and avoid a third consecutive first-round exit as the favored team.
“I think everybody wrote the Raptors off and gave us up for dead, but that locker room is full of fighters and scrappers and guys that are really getting into it now,” Toronto coach Dwane Casey said. “I read some of the stuff, not only here but around the country, about how Indiana was going to win and we weren’t going to get through this, and I loved that because our guys used it as motivation, used it as fuel to fight and to scrap.”
The pressure the team faced to deliver this victory had mounted significantly. Another letdown could’ve been catastrophic. The city needed it. The nation needed it. The franchise needed it.
This time, it didn’t end the way die-hard fans of this team have come to expect.
“I hear so many people talking about the Toronto curse and all this, but if you play basketball, and you play it at a high level, I told plenty of fans and media that this was a different team,” Raptors forward DeMarre Carroll said. “We have a different mindset. This is a team that’s going to go out and leave it all on the court, and that’s what we did tonight.”
DeMar DeRozan needed a franchise playoff-record 32 shots to score 30 points, and Lowry finished the series 7-for-43 from 3-point territory, but Toronto’s All-Star backcourt made crucial plays when it mattered most.
With their team’s lead slipping away and 20,669 panicked supporters saying, "Here we go again," DeRozan took a critical charge from Paul George late in the fourth. Lowry would drive for a left-handed layup with 2:10 remaining to put the Raptors ahead 87-82. And it was DeRozan again, who hit two clutch free throws with six seconds left that finally sealed the game.
“I was just being aggressive,” said Lowry, who played with a banged up right elbow and shot just 31.6 percent in the series. “My teammates count on me, you know that. My teammates love me, and they support me, no matter what I do. No matter what happens, they’re always going to be there, and they’re never going to doubt me, so I just wanted to be aggressive and do what I know how to do, which is get to the hole.”
DeMar DeRozan's 30 points helped the Raptors get by the Pacers in Game 7. Ron Turenne/NBAE via Getty Images
DeRozan, who connected on 31.9 percent of his attempts during the series, was shooting with volume the way Kobe Bryant did in his 60-point retirement game. Only this was a playoff Game 7. He missed nine of 10 shots before scoring 13 points in the third quarter to give Toronto a lead it didn’t relinquish, despite how the team played not to lose down the stretch.
“He was going to empty the clip,” Lowry said of DeRozan, who scored just eight points in Toronto’s 18-point loss in Game 6. “That’s what he did tonight, and that’s what his goal was. We are going to ride with him emptying that clip. I don’t care if he shot it 40 times. He emptied the clip, and we won, so that is all that matters.”
The Raptors were ahead 83-67 with 7:31 remaining before the Pacers countered with a 15-2 run to take the air out of the building. Toronto scored just 11 points in the fourth, the fewest by any team to win a Game 7 in the shot-clock era.
Asked what was going through his mind at the time, Lowry said, “Every four-letter word that is not allowed to be written. But we knew they were going to make a push, and we knew they were going to come out aggressive. We just had to keep our composure. We didn’t do a good job of that, but we kept grinding, and we kept going.”
It was a team effort. Rookie Norman Powell was unfazed throughout the series and finished with 13 points and three 3-pointers. Cory Joseph had eight points and four assists. Bismack Biyombo grabbed 11 rebounds. Patrick Patterson had 11 points. Jonas Valanciunas added 15 rebounds, and Carroll hounded George as best he could defensively all series.
The Raptors had just nine turnovers and outrebounded the Pacers 49-38.
George was far and away the best player in the series, with averages of 27.3 points and 7.6 rebounds, but when it came to players 1 through 10, Toronto had the edge in depth.
After losing a 3-2 series lead to the Brooklyn Nets in 2014 and getting swept by the Washington Wizards in 2015, the Raptors needed this game. The futures of Casey (team option) and DeRozan (unrestricted free agent) might have depended on it. None of that matters now.
After it was over, Ujiri, who was fined by the NBA the past two postseasons for using expletives while addressing fans in Jurassic Park before the Brooklyn and Washington series, was embracing the musician Drake and kissing Casey on the forehead at the podium. The team celebrated on the court with owner Larry Tanenbaum. All of the franchise’s past failures are history now.
“It means a lot. It means the elephant in the room is gone, the monkey is off our back,” Lowry said. “It’s funny. We say that it means a lot, but Cory made a good point: It’s kind of what we were supposed to do. And that’s not discredit to Indy at all. We were the No. 2 seed, and they took us to the limit and had a chance to win the game and win the series. Now we have to continue to focus on getting better.”
Despite the significance of the win, this celebration figures to be a short one. A binder with the scouting report on the Miami Heat sat on a chair at each of the Raptors players’ lockers.
“They have some hellfire players in Dwyane Wade, Goran Dragic, Joe Johnson and Hassan Whiteside,” Lowry said. “They can all play, but we have to go out there and do our job.”
After this emotional high and getting over the hump, it will be interesting to see how much the Raptors have left in the tank.
“We were just going to leave it all out there, whatever we had, from the beginning to the end,” DeRozan said. “That’s how all the guys played tonight.”DeMar DeRozan scores 30 points to help the Raptors defeat the Pacers 89-84 in Game 7 of their first-round series. The win brings Toronto's first playoff series victory since 2001 and a matchup with Miami in the next round. (1:55)
TORONTO -- Twenty minutes after earning the biggest win of his coaching career, Toronto Raptors head coach Dwane Casey uttered a declaration that will reverberate in the NBA after the excitement of the Raptors' 89-84 Game 7 win over the Indiana Pacers fades.
"Paul George is back," Casey said.
Out of all the takeaways from this up-and-down series -- one which culminated in dramatic fashion as the Raptors will play in the second round for the first time in 15 years -- the biggest storyline is that George regained his place amongst the game's elite on the league's biggest stage. Over the past two weeks, George averaged 27.3 points, 7.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists in 39.3 minutes a game, almost single-handedly leading his team to a series triumph over the Eastern Conference's second-ranked team.
That George was able to accomplish all of this not even two years after suffering a gruesome broken leg injury wasn't lost on the 26-year-old.
"If they would have told me I would have a chance to lead my team the first year back," George said. "Give us a chance to advance to the second round, bring [the playoffs] back to Indiana after missing it last season. And then have to go against five guys, five different defenders, have to figure out how to score and make plays, as well as guard. If you told me I would have [done] all that this season and be healthy, I probably would have laughed. It's been a long journey. I'm very proud, very proud of my guys. It's been a good season for us."
The Pacers were understandably sad after the season-ending loss on Sunday, but those feelings were muted by the fact that there is no longer any doubt whether George can be the type of superstar player who can lead a team to a title. Now the question becomes what do Larry Bird and the Pacers have to do in order to make things easier on George?
When the question of roster improvement was posed to head coach Frank Vogel, he turned the conversation back toward the brightest part about his team's short playoff run.
"Paul George broke his leg in half two years ago," Vogel said. "This is a remarkable triumph and a remarkable return. For him to get back on the court this season and to play the way he did in the playoffs was just remarkable. In terms of taking pressure off [him], we've got a complete team. Our guys played well and he played well. We got to continue to grow and continue to build."
Paul George averaged 27.3 points, 7.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists in 39.3 minutes over seven games against Toronto. Vaughn Ridley/Getty Images
In the short term for George, that means he must continue rebuilding his body to a point where he can play huge minutes throughout the postseason. After averaging 34.8 minutes a year during the regular season, and close to 40 a game in the playoffs, George acknowledged that his body didn't have much energy left.
"I ran out of gas a little bit," he said. "I'm not going to try and sit here and be Superman. I definitely was winded late in the game. But it wasn't to the extreme of me losing focus and not making enough plays."
George's brilliance can't obscure the fact that the Pacers have some obvious roster flaws, which Bird and his staff have to fill this summer. On the rare occasions when George went cold or couldn't get into a rhythm, there wasn't always an offensive answer on Vogel's roster. Rookie Myles Turner appears to be a solid player who will continue to get better, and was pointed out specifically by George, but Monta Ellis and George Hill don't exactly strike fear in the hearts of opponents. The Pacers need another star to pair with George if they want to contend in the future -- a fact George understands. It's why he admitted after the game he will try and recruit free agents to Indianapolis this summer.
"Hopefully myself, Monta do a great job recruiting some free agents," George said. "Maybe George as well, getting a big name to come here and help us out."
The best news for the Pacers is that while George's words will have meaning around the league with potential free-agent targets, there is no bigger selling point for both himself and his team than his game. During this series, he was able to take another step in his development as a leader that will serve him well in the future. After deferring to guys like David West and Roy Hibbert in the past, George admitted that this series forced him to be a little more vocal toward his teammates. That's why in the wake of all the unhappiness, George was able to keep a better perspective about the future.
"Very, very pleased," George said. "I was ready for this moment. I was ready to step up. I was ready to do whatever it took to win. I knew I was going to have to have a big series -- to give us the best chance and also have to [be] at my best. There's a lot to take away from it ... the game just really slowed down. I had a better understanding of my game, how I can attack ... so I learned a lot. I learned what I was made of. Just so much to take away from this series."
George fell short of his goal, but he opened up plenty of eyes in the process. He is once again a force to be reckoned with and everyone around the league got a reminder of that over these past seven games.
"Unbelievable," Casey said of George's performance. "I tell you what, I remember trying to prepare for a young Kobe Bryant. And this young man reminds me of trying to prepare for a young Kobe Bryant back in the Laker days, like I was back in Seattle. ... I think he's back and I'm happy for him. Now that we're finished with him, I'm happy for him because he's a super young man. He represents everything basketball should be about. And he's back to his ... All-Star form."HOUSTON -- This was a milestone night for the Memphis Grizzlies, coach David Fizdale declared before Saturday’s game, a smile beaming on his face. Chandler Parsons would finally play both ends of a back-to-back.
“I’m really excited about that for him and for us,” Fizdale said.
It was hard to have much enthusiasm for Parsons’ performance in the 123-108 loss to the Houston Rockets, as he scored two points on 1-of-5 shooting in 20 minutes. But Fizdale, perhaps testing the power of positive thinking, praised Parsons for “getting in the mix a little bit more.”
Sure, Parsons grabbed seven rebounds, and he certainly appreciates the unwavering support of his head coach, but he prefers to be real about the situation as he continues a difficult comeback from a second surgery on his right knee that prompted the Dallas Mavericks to pass on trying to keep him.
“I suck right now,” Parsons said. “There’s no sugarcoating it. It is what it is. I’m just going to continue to work, continue to grind.”
Unfortunately, this kind of meager production hasn’t been unusual for Parsons, the Grizzlies’ high-risk, max-contract addition in free agency. The payoff for their four-year, $94 million deal so far: averages of 6.0 points, 2.5 rebounds and 1.5 assists per game while shooting 33.5 percent from the floor and 25.0 percent from 3-point range.
Playing both games against his former teams this weekend represents progress, but Parsons’ numbers since the All-Star break certainly do not. He has averaged 3.4 points on 24.1 percent shooting in the past five games.
It’s one thing for Parsons to be booed in Dallas and Houston, as he was the past two nights. Mavs fans are irrationally mad at him for suffering season-ending knee injuries the past two seasons, and Rockets fans might have a right to be annoyed with some ill-advised comments he made at the city of Houston after his departure as a restricted free agent.
But the boos have started in Memphis, too, as patience for Parsons is wearing thin with some segments of the Grizzlies' fan base.
Chandler Parsons managed just two points Saturday in what's been an ugly season for the Grizzlies' free-agent prize. Bill Baptist/NBAE via Getty Images
“A little shocking,” Parsons told ESPN of the booing he heard in the Grizzlies’ last home game. “Look, I signed a four-year deal. I didn’t sign a one-year deal. The team expectations for me are to go very slow. It’s going to be a long process.
“I understand as a sports fan you want production. You see the contract I signed with the salary I make. People expect a lot better than I’m performing right now. That’s natural, and that’s how it goes, but I think it’s a little premature [for Memphis fans to boo]. But I get it.”
Parsons understands that, considering his on-court struggles, some folks in Memphis might also be turned off by the flamboyant lifestyle he leads. He has decided to shut down his social media activity for the rest of the season -- which will rob Memphis sports-talk radio of a lot of fodder -- figuring he needs to block out negativity as he focuses on getting healthy and regaining his form.
For the record, Fizdale thinks the reaction to Parsons’ social life is rather silly.
“I get it,” Fizdale said. “I get that the fans see social media and see him in Cancun. You know what? If you looked at every other player’s social media that wasn’t at the All-Star Game, they were probably at a beach, because I was, too. I get them being frustrated with that and the fact that he’s single and has got girls that he dates and all that stuff. If I looked like that and I was single, I’d date a lot of girls, too. So get past all of that.
“This guy comes to work every single day on his game, on his body, twice, sometimes three times a day. He’s a great teammate. He’s really trying his butt off to get his body functioning at a high level. That’s all I care about.”
Parsons, who had to hit reset on his comeback when a bone bruise in his other knee sidelined him for a month early in the season, readily admits that he lacks the explosiveness he used to have. He’s working to regain that while trying to chip off rust during games for a Grizzlies squad that’s fighting for playoff seeding.
There are also mental hurdles Parsons must overcome. He’s more frustrated than any fan. He insists his confidence hasn’t cracked, but he sees a hesitant player who passes up good looks too often when he watches film. And he knows opposing defenses are daring him to shoot.
“It’s almost just weird,” Parsons said. “The way teams are guarding me, they’re going under [screens]. They’re almost disrespecting me in a way. I’ve never been guarded like this before. I just have to go into games with the understanding to shoot the ball when I’m open. Not force or take bad shots, but I work too hard, and I’m too good of a player to be struggling like this for this long.
“Basically, I don’t feel 100 percent. That’s going to come with time. That’s going to be a process, but mentally I have to overcome that.”
MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES Check out the team site for more game coverage HOUSTON ROCKETS Check out the team site for more game coverage
All his teammates ask of Parsons at this point is to continue putting in the work. As Mike Conley said, the hope is he’ll eventually get a few shots to go down and it’ll click for the forward whose versatile game Memphis hoped would be the perfect complement to the Grit 'n' Grind mainstays.
The only way Parsons shuts it down for the season is if it’s a medical decision that is out of his hands. As he sees it, there is a quarter of the regular season remaining for him to work on his form and get ready to help the Grizzlies make a playoff run.
Fizdale, meanwhile, pumps up Parsons and preaches patience with his lack of production.
“We’ve gotten to this point without it, so why be impatient and put extra pressure on him?” Fizdale said. “There’s no need for that. All of us in there understand that it’s not easy to come back from what he did right in the middle of the season and jump into the mix and be old Chandler Parsons. That’s not realistic.
“This team, they’ll keep surrounding him and keep pumping him with confidence. At some point, I just really feel like it’s going to kick in, and he’s really going to help us this year.”MILWAUKEE -- If the Milwaukee Bucks haven't turned the Eastern Conference completely upside down (you could say the Bulls are handling that with the Celtics), they're at least resetting the order. On Thursday night, it wasn't just the dark jerseys -- normally the sign of a higher seed on the road in a Game 3 -- that seemed out of place, it was their utter domination of the more experienced, more accomplished Toronto Raptors. It was a 104-77 beatdown so convincing, it left you wondering how the Raptors managed to win one game so far in this series and doubting if they can get another.
How best to summarize it?
Kyle Lowry had plenty of time to think about it, sitting back while teammate DeMar DeRozan answered the first two questions at the postgame news conference, before Lowry was finally asked to share his thoughts.
Lowry leaned forward and said: "We got our ass busted."
The Busting Bucks are in accelerated growth mode, maturing ahead of schedule and at the exact wrong time for the Raptors.
The lineup the sixth-seeded Bucks sent out for the opening tip had started a total of 18 playoff games in their careers before Thursday night. The Raptors who returned from last season's squad each played 20 games in the 2016 playoffs alone. It made no difference. The young Bucks took control immediately and led 32-12 after one quarter.
Khris Middleton went for 20 points and added 7 assists in the Bucks' Game 3 victory. Gary Dineen/NBAE via Getty Images
What drags down Milwaukee's experience curve is the presence of two rookies, Malcolm Brogdon and Thon Maker. Well, the worst thing you could say about them in Game 3 was they had the lowest plus/minus of the starters, at plus-10 and plus-13 respectively. And the only indication of the Bucks' youth in this series is that they drew back the curtain just enough to let some light shine on the Raptors in Game 2, a game Milwaukee realistically could have won to put it in position to sweep.
Doesn't it give Milwaukee coach Jason Kidd heart palpitations to roll out such a young lineup?
"I'm a young coach, so I think we all fit with the experience level," said the 44-year-old Kidd, who played in the NBA as recently as 2013.
"The guys on the floor and on the bench support them, and the coaching staff has done everything to prepare them for this moment. It's up to them to be basketball players, and they're very comfortable with doing that. We try to keep things simple and have fun with it, and they do all the work."
And what has made the Bucks come so close to realizing their potential?
"I think we're starting to do it with our defense more," Khris Middleton said. "Learning to play smart basketball and use our length."
2017 NBA Opening Night On opening night, the Warriors were stunned in Oakland and the Celtics' high hopes took a tumble. • Irving: Hayward injury among worst
• Despite gloom, hopeful signs for C's
• Hobbled CP3 sees Houston rally
• LeBron shakes ankle woes in opener
• Warriors get rings for 2017 title MILWAUKEE BUCKS Check out the team site for more game coverage TORONTO RAPTORS Check out the team site for more game coverage
Milwaukee switches one condor-wingspanned player for another on defense, and a Raptors offense predicated on DeRozan and Lowry beating their man off the dribble couldn't get around them. Nor could the Raptors shoot over them, missing 16 of 22 3-pointers. DeRozan went 0-for-8 overall, making him the first 25-points-per-game scorer to go 0-for-3 or worse in a playoff game in the same season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. He didn't get a point until he made two free throws midway through the second quarter. Lowry wasn't much better, with 13 points on 4-for-10 shooting.
"I still think we can win the series," Lowry said. "It's a terrible feeling, the way we got our ass beat. It's a terrible feeling. [But] our confidence is not changed. We'll be fine."
What if it's not a matter of confidence? What if there's nothing the Raptors can do about it? What if the series is happening to them more than it's happening with them?
They were destroyed Thursday and the Bucks didn't even get a monster game from Giannis Antetokounmpo, who still made 7 of 10 shots, grabbed eight rebounds, scored 19 points, and blocked a shot with his elbow -- seriously.
The Bucks just looked so much better. Deep into the fourth quarter, the game well in hand, the Bucks were still playing sharply, moving the ball all over with an everyone-on-the-floor-touches-it kind of possession that resulted in a wide-open 3-pointer by Matthew Dellavedova.
The only thing the Raptors did well and convincingly was show frustration. Serge Ibaka slammed the ball to the ground so hard it bounced higher than the shot clock above the basket after he was called for goaltending. And Lowry took exception to Dellavedova crowding him as he called timeout, and Lowry raised his elbow to send a message.
It was Toronto's lowest playoff score since the Raptors scored 63 in Detroit in 2002. Meanwhile, the Bucks had their biggest home blowout in the BMO Harris Bradley Center, which suddenly is hosting one of the best crowds in the NBA. The were at full volume from the outset, with the "Cream City Clash" fan group singing chants like a college student section.
"The crowd was unbelievable," Antetokounmpo said. "It was fun."
Fun at the Raptors' expense. Worrisome for the other denizens of the Eastern Conference.Finalists for the 2017 NBA awards were announced Friday night prior to Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals. There are three finalists each for the following awards: Kia NBA Most Valuable Player, Kia NBA Rookie of the Year, Kia NBA Defensive Player of the Year, Kia NBA Sixth Man Award, Kia NBA Most Improved Player and NBA Coach of the Year. Rapper/entertainer Drake will help reveal the winners when he hosts the first-ever NBA Awards show June 26.
Here is a running list of the award finalists:
Most Improved Player of the Year
Milwaukee PG/F Giannis Antetokounmpo: He became just the fifth player in NBA history to lead his team in points, rebounds, assists, blocks and steals, joining LeBron James, Kevin Garnett, Scottie Pippen and Dave Cowens. Antetokounmpo has increased his points per game, rebounds, assists, blocks, steals and field goal percentage averages in each of his four seasons.
Denver C Nikola Jokic: Jokic saw significant increases in his scoring average, rebounding, assists and field goal percentage from the past season to this season. Averaged 16.7 points, 9.8 rebounds, 4.9 assists and 57.8 percent shooting while posting six triple-doubles. He was the only player to post averages of 18-11-6 since the start of February.
Utah C Rudy Gobert: Gobert increased his scoring average from 9.1 to 14.0 PPG and averaged a career-high 12.8 rebounds (fourth in NBA) while contesting 14.2 shots per game.
Sixth Man of the Year
Golden State F Andre Iguodala: Iguodala posted his highest player efficiency rating (14.4) in four seasons in Golden State. Iguodala averaged 7.6 points and came off the bench every game this season for the team with the best record in the NBA (67 wins).
Houston G Eric Gordon: Gordon made the fourth-most 3-pointers (246) this season with 206 made off the bench, the most in a season off the bench in the 3-point era (since 1979-80), according to ESPN Stats & Information. The guard averaged 16.3 points per game off the bench, second in the NBA.
Houston G Lou Williams: Williams averaged an NBA-best 17.6 points per game off the bench and made 161 3-pointers off the bench this season. He averaged a career-high 17.5 points.
As expected, Houston's James Harden, left, and OKC's Russell Westbrook are MVP finalists. Thomas B. Shea/USA TODAY Sports
Defensive Player of the Year
Golden State PF/C Draymond Green: Green led the NBA with a career-high 2.03 steals and was second in defensive real plus-minus (5.03) this season. He was second in defensive win shares (5.4) and second with 3.9 deflections per game. According to NBA.com player-tracking data, Green limited opponents to 44 percent shooting at the rim, behind only Gobert and LaMarcus Aldridge.
San Antonio F Kawhi Leonard: Leonard hopes to join Dwight Howard as the only person to win Defensive Player of the Year honors three years in a row. Leonard was sixth in defensive win shares (4.7) and averaged 1.8 steals and 3.4 deflections per game. According to ESPN Stats & Info, Leonard allowed only 40 isolation points total this season and faced only 43 isolation plays.
Utah C Rudy Gobert: Gobert led the NBA in defensive win shares (6.0), defensive real plus-minus (6.01), blocks (2.6) and field goal percentage allowed at the rim (43.9) while contesting 14.2 shots per game.
Rookie of the Year
Milwaukee G Malcolm Brogdon: Drafted 36th overall in the second round, Brogdon averaged 10.2 points and 4.2 assists. He posted 10 points and five assists in 20 games this season, most among rookies. Brogdon was first among all rookies in steals and assists.
Philadelphia C Joel Embiid: Embiid averaged 20.2 points, 7.8 rebounds and 2.5 blocks but was limited to just 31 games due to injury. Embiid’s scoring average was 28.7 PPG on a per-36-minutes basis. The only rookie to average more points per 36 minutes was Wilt Chamberlain (29.2 in 1959-60), according to ESPN Stats & Info.
Philadelphia F Dario Saric: He came on strong in Embiid’s absence, averaging 12.8 points, 6.3 rebounds and 2.2 assists. Saric led all rookies with five 20-point, 10-rebound games this season.
Coach of the Year
Houston’s Mike D’Antoni: The Rockets posted the league’s third-best record at 55-27. Under D’Antoni, James Harden posted a historic season and the Rockets made a record 1,181 3-pointers. They also averaged 115.3 points this season.
San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich: Popovich led the Spurs to 60 wins for the second straight season and a 20th consecutive playoff appearance, tying Phil Jackson for most consecutive postseason appearances by a coach in NBA history. The Spurs led the NBA in defensive efficiency for the eight time under Popovich.
Miami’s Erik Spoelstra: He orchestrated an NBA-record turnaround, going from an 11-30 start to a furious 30-11 finish to reach 41-41. According to Elias Sports Bureau, the 19-games-under-.500 start was the biggest gap that a team has rebounded from to reach .500, shattering the previous record of 12 games under. The Heat also became only the second team to post a double-digit win streak during a season despite having no All-Stars play in any of those games, joining the 2007-08 Trail Blazers.
Most Valuable Player
Oklahoma City PG Russell Westbrook: After Kevin Durant moved on to Golden State, Westbrook joined Oscar Robertson as the only players to average a triple-double in a season, finishing with 42 triple-doubles, breaking Robertson’s previous single-season record of 41 in 1961-62. Westbrook led the NBA in total points and was second in total assists, averaging 31.6 points, 10.7 rebounds and 10.4 assists. The Thunder went 33-9 when he recorded a triple-double.
Houston PG James Harden: Harden became the first player to score 2,000 points and assist on 2,000 points in a season in NBA history, creating the most points per game (scored or assisted) in the NBA this season with 56.2. Harden finished first in total assists and second in total points, averaging 29.1 points, 11.2 assists, 8.1 rebounds and 1.5 steals.
San Antonio F Kawhi Leonard: Leonard averaged 25.5 points, 5.8 rebounds and 1.8 steals as the Spurs’ leader on offense and defense. According to ESPN Stats & Info, he had the best record and player efficiency rating in head-to-head matchups against the other MVP contenders. He also was the only player in the NBA to rank in the top 10 in points per game (ninth), steals per game (tied for seventh) and deflections per game (tied for eighth).MILWAUKEE -- As Giannis Antetokounmpo continues carving out a path for himself as one of the best players in the NBA, the Bucks star knows he will pick lessons up for himself along the way. Such was the case in Friday night's 108-94 loss to Kevin Durant and the Golden State Warriors, as Durant got the best of the 23-year-old.
"When you guard players like Durant, you just got to make their game as tough as you can," Antetokounmpo said. "He's going to get 20 shots up and he's going to play his game. You just got to be out there and try to make it as tough as you can to guys like that. You can't stop them. That's one thing that I've learned. I gotta see it the same way. The defense gets tough. They're just trying to make my job a lot harder. So, KD was aggressive all night. Moving forward, that's a lesson for me to be aggressive all night too."
Kevin Durant got the best of Giannis Antetokounmpo in the Warriors' win over the Bucks. Benny Sieu/USA TODAY Sports
Bucks coach Jason Kidd believes that Antetokounmpo is going through the same type of growing pains that Durant, 29, dealt with during his time with the Oklahoma City Thunder a few years ago. The Bucks made one of their best runs of the night during the third quarter after Antetokounmpo went to the bench with his fourth foul. Once he returned, Durant and rest of the Warriors loaded up on Antetokounmpo, forcing him into some tough shots.
"I think you look at all the young players in this league, look at Durant -- he's been in the league for some time now," Kidd said. "He's gone through the same thing of going against guys that might be a little bit better, that are up for the challenge of to slow him down. For Giannis, it's just understanding that every night, no matter if we're playing Golden State or another team in this league, they're all going to get up to guard him and slow him down.
"I thought tonight he did a really good job of getting his teammates involved. We're getting a lot of wide-open looks that aren't going in right now. For Giannis, it's continue to stay hungry, keep driving the ball and making plays for his teammates."
The Bucks aren't concerned about Antetokounmpo's desire to get better. They know he will continue taking the necessary steps in his evolution as a superstar. But it's nights like Friday that underscore the need for more time before he is considered at or near Durant's level.
Veteran point guard Jason Terry of the Bucks offered this comparison between the two players prior to the game.
"Their size and their ability to handle the ball at 7 feet," Terry said. "Athleticism, obviously. Durant just has that special characteristic that Giannis will have. That clutch gene, the ability to take over a game from anywhere on the floor. Giannis now dominates from the paint, we all know that. Once he develops the outside game, then you can start that comparison of a Kevin Durant."MILWAUKEE -- As Giannis Antetokounmpo continues carving out a path for himself as one of the best players in the NBA, the Bucks star knows he will pick lessons up for himself along the way. Such was the case in Friday night's 108-94 loss to Kevin Durant and the Golden State Warriors, as Durant got the best of the 23-year-old.
"When you guard players like Durant, you just got to make their game as tough as you can," Antetokounmpo said. "He's going to get 20 shots up and he's going to play his game. You just got to be out there and try to make it as tough as you can to guys like that. You can't stop them. That's one thing that I've learned. I gotta see it the same way. The defense gets tough. They're just trying to make my job a lot harder. So, KD was aggressive all night. Moving forward, that's a lesson for me to be aggressive all night too."
Kevin Durant got the best of Giannis Antetokounmpo in the Warriors' win over the Bucks. Benny Sieu/USA TODAY Sports
Bucks coach Jason Kidd believes that Antetokounmpo is going through the same type of growing pains that Durant, 29, dealt with during his time with the Oklahoma City Thunder a few years ago. The Bucks made one of their best runs of the night during the third quarter after Antetokounmpo went to the bench with his fourth foul. Once he returned, Durant and rest of the Warriors loaded up on Antetokounmpo, forcing him into some tough shots.
"I think you look at all the young players in this league, look at Durant -- he's been in the league for some time now," Kidd said. "He's gone through the same thing of going against guys that might be a little bit better, that are up for the challenge of to slow him down. For Giannis, it's just understanding that every night, no matter if we're playing Golden State or another team in this league, they're all going to get up to guard him and slow him down.
"I thought tonight he did a really good job of getting his teammates involved. We're getting a lot of wide-open looks that aren't going in right now. For Giannis, it's continue to stay hungry, keep driving the ball and making plays for his teammates."
The Bucks aren't concerned about Antetokounmpo's desire to get better. They know he will continue taking the necessary steps in his evolution as a superstar. But it's nights like Friday that underscore the need for more time before he is considered at or near Durant's level.
Veteran point guard Jason Terry of the Bucks offered this comparison between the two players prior to the game.
"Their size and their ability to handle the ball at 7 feet," Terry said. "Athleticism, obviously. Durant just has that special characteristic that Giannis will have. That clutch gene, the ability to take over a game from anywhere on the floor. Giannis now dominates from the paint, we all know that. Once he develops the outside game, then you can start that comparison of a Kevin Durant."MILWAUKEE -- As Giannis Antetokounmpo continues carving out a path for himself as one of the best players in the NBA, the Bucks star knows he will pick lessons up for himself along the way. Such was the case in Friday night's 108-94 loss to Kevin Durant and the Golden State Warriors, as Durant got the best of the 23-year-old. "When you guard players like Durant, you just got to make their game as tough as you can," Antetokounmpo said. "He's going to get 20 shots up and he's going to play his game. You just got to be out there and try to make it as tough as you can to guys like that. You can't stop them. That's one thing that I've learned. I gotta see it the same way. The defense gets tough. They're just trying to make my job a lot harder. So, KD was aggressive all night. Moving forward, that's a lesson for me to be aggressive all night too." Bucks coach Jason Kidd believes that Antetokounmpo is going through the same type of growing pains that Durant, 29, dealt with during his time with the Oklahoma City Thunder a few years ago. The Bucks made one of their best runs of the night during the third quarter after Antetokounmpo went to the bench with his fourth foul. Once he returned, Durant and rest of the Warriors loaded up on Antetokounmpo, forcing him into some tough shots. "I think you look at all the young players in this league, look at Durant -- he's been in the league for some time now," Kidd said. "He's gone through the same thing of going against guys that might be a little bit better, that are up for the challenge of to slow him down. For Giannis, it's just understanding that every night, no matter if we're playing Golden State or another team in this league, they're all going to get up to guard him and slow him down. "I thought tonight he did a really good job of getting his teammates involved. We're getting a lot of wide-open looks that aren't going in right now. For Giannis, it's continue to stay hungry, keep driving the ball and making plays for his teammates." The Bucks aren't concerned about Antetokounmpo's desire to get better. They know he will continue taking the necessary steps in his evolution as a superstar. But it's nights like Friday that underscore the need for more time before he is considered at or near Durant's level. Veteran point guard Jason Terry of the Bucks offered this comparison between the two players prior to the game. "Their size and their ability to handle the ball at 7 feet," Terry said. "Athleticism, obviously. Durant just has that special characteristic that Giannis will have. That clutch gene, the ability to take over a game from anywhere on the floor. Giannis now dominates from the paint, we all know that. Once he develops the outside game, then you can start that comparison of a Kevin Durant."MILWAUKEE -- As Giannis Antetokounmpo continues carving out a path for himself as one of the best players in the NBA, the Bucks star knows he will pick lessons up for himself along the way. Such was the case in Friday night's 108-94 loss to Kevin Durant and the Golden State Warriors, as Durant got the best of the 23-year-old.
"When you guard players like Durant, you just got to make their game as tough as you can," Antetokounmpo said. "He's going to get 20 shots up and he's going to play his game. You just got to be out there and try to make it as tough as you can to guys like that. You can't stop them. That's one thing that I've learned. I gotta see it the same way. The defense gets tough. They're just trying to make my job a lot harder. So, KD was aggressive all night. Moving forward, that's a lesson for me to be aggressive all night too."
Kevin Durant got the best of Giannis Antetokounmpo in the Warriors' win over the Bucks. Benny Sieu/USA TODAY Sports
Bucks coach Jason Kidd believes that Antetokounmpo is going through the same type of growing pains that Durant, 29, dealt with during his time with the Oklahoma City Thunder a few years ago. The Bucks made one of their best runs of the night during the third quarter after Antetokounmpo went to the bench with his fourth foul. Once he returned, Durant and rest of the Warriors loaded up on Antetokounmpo, forcing him into some tough shots.
"I think you look at all the young players in this league, look at Durant -- he's been in the league for some time now," Kidd said. "He's gone through the same thing of going against guys that might be a little bit better, that are up for the challenge of to slow him down. For Giannis, it's just understanding that every night, no matter if we're playing Golden State or another team in this league, they're all going to get up to guard him and slow him down.
"I thought tonight he did a really good job of getting his teammates involved. We're getting a lot of wide-open looks that aren't going in right now. For Giannis, it's continue to stay hungry, keep driving the ball and making plays for his teammates."
The Bucks aren't concerned about Antetokounmpo's desire to get better. They know he will continue taking the necessary steps in his evolution as a superstar. But it's nights like Friday that underscore the need for more time before he is considered at or near Durant's level.
Veteran point guard Jason Terry of the Bucks offered this comparison between the two players prior to the game.
"Their size and their ability to handle the ball at 7 feet," Terry said. "Athleticism, obviously. Durant just has that special characteristic that Giannis will have. That clutch gene, the ability to take over a game from anywhere on the floor. Giannis now dominates from the paint, we all know that. Once he develops the outside game, then you can start that comparison of a Kevin Durant."Lithuanian small forward Matas Jogela has submitted paperwork to make himself eligible for the 2018 NBA draft, his agent, Marius Rutkauskas, told ESPN.
“I have three more years to get a chance in the NBA draft,” Jogela told ESPN. “I feel like it is about time to get my name out there. It wasn’t really a hard decision. I have a chance to still take my name out this year and next.”
Jogela, a 19-year-old, 6-foot-8 small forward, is in the midst of a productive season in Lithuania, averaging 11.7 points and 5.2 rebounds in 20 minutes per game for Zalgiris 2 in the country’s second division, the NKL. He missed most of the 2016-2017 season with a foot injury but has become a leading player for the feeder team of Euroleague powerhouse Zalgiris, helping the club advance to the semifinals of the playoffs, which will be conducted this weekend. He scored 24 points on 13 shots in 22 minutes (including 15 in the fourth quarter) in the team’s semifinal-clinching victory last week. He has been practicing with the main Zalgiris squad for much of this season, as well as playing for the second team.
“I am just happy I am finally healthy and playing at 100 percent,” Jogela said. “My breakout season should have been earlier. There is still a long way to go, but it brought my confidence back. I have put in a lot of extra work this past year, and I think it is paying off for me. Also, it helped that my body is getting stronger, as well as being fully healthy.”
Jogela is a late bloomer who wasn’t identified early as a top prospect in his age group in Europe like many of his peers in this draft class, making just one appearance in a national team uniform in 2016 at the U18 European Championship, in which he played only seven minutes per game. He managed to emerge as one of the most productive teenagers playing professional basketball on this side of the ocean recently after hitting a growth spurt that took him from 6-foot-5 to 6-foot-8 in shoes over the past two years.
He sees most of his minutes playing on the perimeter and is tasked with a significant amount of ballhandling responsibilities, showing impressive ability to create shots for himself and others in pick-and-roll situations or on the defensive glass, using either hand and long, fluid footwork. He’s also a capable, albeit streaky, outside shooter, both with his feet set and off the dribble. To reach his full potential, Jogela will have to significantly improve his defense, strengthen his frame and quicken the speed of his release. His lack of experience in higher levels will be questioned as the draft approaches, which is why he might end up being more of a 2019 or even 2020 draft candidate.
“All I want to achieve right now is to see if the NBA is realistic for me,” Jogela said. “Everything I do well out here -- being aggressive in offense, shooting, getting offensive rebounds and just bringing energy. I think my athleticism helps me a lot.”
Jogela is the No. 8 player in ESPN's 1998 international class rankings.Icelandic center Tryggvi Hlinason is declaring for the 2018 NBA draft, a source told ESPN.
The 7-foot-1, 260-pound center had a breakout performance at last summer's Under-20 European Championship, averaging 16.1 points, 11.6 rebounds and 3.1 blocks in 33 minutes per game, helping his tiny country of 330,000 people to a historic top-eight finish. He later joined Iceland's senior national team at EuroBasket, and has played an important role during the FIBA World Cup qualification window over the course of the season.
Hlinason plays for EuroLeague team Valencia in Spain, where he has seen inconsistent minutes in his first season at the highest level of European basketball, totaling just 141 minutes in 22 games thus far.
A late bloomer who grew up herding sheep, gathering hay and driving snowmobiles in a remote, 900-person town -- as chronicled this summer by ESPN's Mike Schmitz -- Hlinason only started playing basketball at the age of 16. He has made rapid improvement since, showing impressive mobility and instincts to go along with his massive frame and 7-4 wingspan. He shows good potential as a rebounder, shot-blocker and lob-catcher, but is still at an early stage in his development, which has contributed to his lack of minutes for a Valencia team that hasn't shown much interest historically in developing young prospects.
He is currently rated the No. 75 prospect in the ESPN Top 100 and is considered a potential second-round pick by NBA teams. As a 1997-born international player, he will have one more opportunity to go through the NBA draft process in 2019 should he elect to withdraw his name at the early-entry deadline on June 11.German wing Karim Jallow has submitted paperwork to make himself eligible for the 2018 NBA draft, his agent, Jan Rohdewald, told ESPN.
“Playing in the NBA has been my dream since I can remember,” Jallow told ESPN. “Entering the draft will help me get there. I want to test myself against the best draft candidates and everything I learn in the process will help me improve.”
Jallow -- a 21-year-old, 6-foot-7 small forward -- is dominating the German third division (called ProB), averaging 18.9 points, 5.8 rebounds and 2.1 steals in 32 minutes per game for FC Bayern Munich II. He’s also made 13 appearances for Bayern Munich’s main team in the EuroCup and German BBL, posting much more modest averages, totaling 31 points and nine rebounds in 68 minutes of action.
“Unfortunately I didn’t have the opportunity to play against top-level talent regularly this season,” Jallow said. “I believe that the workouts will show NBA teams that I’m just as good as guys who went to big colleges in the USA or played in the top leagues in Europe. I can play multiple positions, on both ends, and that’s what every NBA team is looking for.”
ESPN’s Mike Schmitz was in Germany and was able to evaluate Jallow in a live setting, writing that he “has NBA tools and athleticism at 6-7 with high shoulders, a strong frame and big hands. Despite an oddly hunched over stance, he defends up to four positions at the ProB level while making an impact offensively by sprinting the floor, moving off the ball and crashing the offensive glass relentlessly. He has improved as a standstill shooter but lacks a degree of natural touch and talent. He has a mediocre feel for the game, rigid ball skills and a fairly unnatural shooting stroke (27.5 career 3-point percentage), but his physical profile and energy should help him get looks in the mid- to late-second round. NBA teams are starving for defensive-minded wings, and despite his shortcomings, Jallow has the tools and motor to at least disrupt the game defensively for short stretches.”
Jallow is currently rated the No. 72 prospect in the ESPN Top 100 and is considered a potential second-round pick by NBA teams. As an international player born in 1997, he will have one more opportunity to go through the NBA draft process in 2019 should he elect to withdraw his name at the early-entry deadline on June 11.
“I would like to prove to teams that I belong in the NBA,” Jallow said. “I think the experience, the workouts, the competition, it’s all going to make me better.”French forward Amine Noua is declaring for the 2018 NBA draft, a source told ESPN on Tuesday.
The 6-foot-8, 21-year-old power forward has been a staple of the French national team for the past five years, establishing himself as a starter and leading player at the Under-16 and Under-20 European Championships, as well as the FIBA Under-17 World Cup in 2014, where he averaged 19 points per game. He was called up to the senior national team training camp during the FIBA World Cup qualification this season.
Noua has played club basketball with ASVEL -- a team owned by San Antonio Spurs point guard Tony Parker -- since he was 10 years old. He is one of only two draft-eligible players in ProA France starting virtually every game, along with potential first-rounder Elie Okobo. He’s averaging 10.1 points, 4.5 rebounds and 1.0 assist per game, shooting 59 percent from 2 and 34 percent from 3. He also has started in all 15 games the French team played in the EuroCup, a Pan-European competition that draws some of the better non-Euroleague teams on the continent.
Noua has been heavily scouted all season by NBA teams with draft picks in the second round, as many international talent evaluators consider him to be one of the better stash options in the draft. A team might consider picking him and holding his rights while he continues to mature in France. His squad is expected to participate in the Euroleague next season, making it an attractive development situation.
Noua is a versatile power forward who grew up operating strictly around the basket but has developed his jump shot significantly in the past year. He is a Swiss-army-knife-type player who can post up, rebound, push the ball in the open floor and find ways to score without having plays called for him. Defensively, he has multi-positional versatility due to his solid length, quick feet and strong instincts. While not oozing with pure talent or upside, it’s easy to see him developing into a highly productive player in Europe over the next few years and a consistent presence on the French national team, as he is widely lauded for his outstanding intangibles.
He is rated the No. 78 prospect in the ESPN Top 100. As a 1997-born international player, he will have one more opportunity to go through the NBA draft process in 2019 should he elect to withdraw his name at the early-entry deadline on June 11.Turkish wing Muhaymin Mustafa has submitted paperwork to make himself eligible for the 2018 NBA draft, his agent, Nikos Spanos, told ESPN.
"My biggest dream is to play in the NBA," Mustafa told ESPN. "I feel that this year I made a big step towards my goal with my participation in the EuroLeague. I want to be seen by NBA teams so that I can get feedback on how ready I am, and what I need to improve."
The son of Sudanese parents, Mustafa came to Turkey at the age of 10 by way of Northern Cyprus. He is in the midst of his first season at the pro level, where he has played in 19 games in EuroLeague and the Turkish first division for Anadolu Efes.
The 6-foot-7 small forward represented the Turkish national team at the under-16, under-17 and under-18 levels, and he's expected to be a significant part of their future at the senior level due to his intriguing combination of physical tools and versatility.
Mustafa, 19, has gone back and forth this season between Anadolu's first team and being on loan with second division team Istanbulspor, allowing him to get playing time in the still-competitive professional league, while also seeing more minutes in the EuroLeague this season than any 1999-born player other than Luka Doncic.
"I consider myself very lucky that I am getting this experience, especially from Coach [Ergin] Ataman," Mustafa told ESPN. "He is a teacher for me and he tried to help me improve and has given me chances from the first moment he came to the team. I have to say that he is the first person in my career to show me that he really believes in me and this I will remember forever. Learning from his experience and devotion for winning has been instructive in my development.
"It was very important for me to be able to compete against the best players in the EuroLeague and Turkish League. Many of these players are NBA level, so I could see the level I want to reach."
We scouted Mustafa in person last summer at the Under-18 European Championship in Slovakia and wrote, "[He] shows multi-positional defensive versatility with his quick feet and 6-10 wingspan, spending time guarding anywhere from point guard to power forward. He can get in the passing lanes, rotates for blocks occasionally and shows just enough potential offensively to suggests he's on his way to becoming an intriguing wing prospect, the type of which are increasingly difficult to find in today's NBA."
As a 1999-born international prospect, Mustafa is eligible for the NBA draft for the first time, but he's available to be selected any time from the 2018 to 2021 drafts, giving him plenty of time to gather experience and feedback in an attempt to maximize his stock.
With the Turkish league ending soon -- followed by the playoffs -- Mustafa's season may be finished some time in May, which could allow him to participate in the newly formed NBA Elite International Camp in Italy in June, providing a platform for him in front of decision-makers.
"The feedback that I receive will be very important," Mustafa told ESPN. "I believe I can show more individual characteristics that are harder to demonstrate as a young player competing at the highest level. Most important for me would be to show that I can be effective on both sides of the floor, that I can defend multiple positions and also my versatility offensively. I can test the waters in this draft process and decide if I should stay or withdraw later on."
Mustafa is the No. 9 prospect in ESPN's 1999-class international rankings.EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- A few quick thoughts on the Los Angeles Lakers' No. 2 overall pick in the first round.
The pick: D'Angelo Russell, point guard, Ohio State
My take: Bold move. Ever since the Lakers wound up with the No. 2 overall pick on draft lottery night, most everyone figured they would be selecting whichever top center Minnesota didn't take first overall: either Kentucky's Karl Anthony-Towns or Duke's Jahlil Okafor. When Towns, as expected, went first overall, it looked all but certain that Okafor would be next, but the Lakers shocked the basketball landscape. No, the franchise known for having franchise centers didn't select a potential franchise center who was still available. Instead, the Lakers selected a player analytics and analysts alike say might end up being the best overall player in the draft. This pick also indicates that the Lakers are highly confident that they can acquire a big man in free agency, perhaps Kevin Love or LaMarcus Aldridge.
By the numbers: Standing 6-foot-5 and weighing 193 pounds, Russell has a nearly 6-foot-10 wingspan, the 12th-longest wingspan of any point guard measured at the combine. He averaged 19.3 points, 5.7 rebounds and 5.0 assists per game during his freshman season at Ohio State. He had a high usage rate but remained efficient, ranking in the top five in the Big Ten Conference in assist percentage, 3-point percentage and player efficiency rating. He's also 19 years, 127 days old on the day of the draft, making him the seventh-youngest college player in Chad Ford's Top 100.
What it means for the Lakers: The Lakers have a point guard of the future, and, depending on how he develops, a potential superstar in the backcourt. That fact alone will help a franchise that will soon be bidding farewell to its current backcourt star Kobe Bryant. Will Russell be the next Bryant? No one in their right mind would say such a thing or put that kind of pressure on him. But the Lakers are a star-driven franchise in a star-driven town. They need a player who fits a mold, and Russell does.The Atlanta Hawks took Kansas wing Kelly Oubre Jr. with the No. 15 overall pick on Thursday night but later sent him to the Washington Wizards.
In the deal, the Wizards sent Atlanta two second-round picks and the 19th overall pick -- Notre Dame's Jerian Grant -- for the rights to Oubre.
Then, the Hawks sent Grant to the New York Knicks for Tim Hardaway Jr.
The 20-year-old Oubre, who stands 6-foot-7 and weighs 200 pounds, averaged 9.3 points and 5.0 rebounds in his lone season with the Jayhawks.
Chad Ford had Oubre as high as No. 5 on his Big Board during the season, but ranked him 16th in his final edition. Ford noted that Oubre needs time to develop, as he is "further away than a lot of the other players on the board."
Ford's analysis: "He's very young and his basketball IQ is low. ...If he puts in the work -- a big if -- he could be one of the best 8 or 9 players in this draft."
With their second-round pick, No. 49 overall, the Wizards took Iowa power forward Aaron White. The 60th-ranked prospect on Ford's board, White posted 16.4 points and 7.3 rebounds per game for the Hawkeyes as a senior.
Ford's analysis: "He hustles and rebounds and gets up and down the floor. ...I'm not sure if White is good enough to be more than a 10th or 12th man."Igor Kokoskov was announced as the newest addition to Quin Snyder's staff on Wednesday. This will mark Kokoskov's fifteenth season as an assistant coach, including the 2004 season in which he won a championship with the Detroit Pistons. Kokoskov was most recently an assistant for the Orlando Magic in 2014-15.
In addition to his service as an NBA assistant, Kokoskov also has experience coaching overseas. He helped coach the 2004 Serbian National Team at the Athens Olympic Games and was the head coach of the Georgia National Team from 2008-2014, twice qualifying for the European Championships.
This will be Kokoskov's second stint as an assistant for Quin Snyder, his first coming back in 1999-00 at the University of Missouri.UPDATE: Not only is Jason Kidd suddenly the frontrunner for the Brooklyn Nets job, a report today indicates that he could soon become the Nets' next head coach.
ESPN + Subscribe to ESPN+ to get access to all premium articles, Fantasy tools, plus thousands of live sporting events and ESPN Originals for just $4.99/mo! Start Your Free Trial Already an ESPN+ subscriber? Log in here.The Toronto Raptors are running with a full 20-man squad during the preseason, which means at least five players will have to be moved off the roster by the Oct. 24 deadline to set the regular-season team. One newcomer who might be the favorite to win the 15th roster spot is guard Fred VanVleet.
When discussing the possible final roster cuts, Doug Smith of the Toronto Star writes: "I’ve fully expected VanVleet to stick as the 15th guy and spend a lot of time in Mississauga. His work in two games just seems to have affirmed that, even if there is a lot of time left before any decisions have to be made."
Guard Brady Heslip might be a challenger for the last roster spot. However, Steven Loung of Sportsnet.ca also believes VanVleet is likely the early favorite to stick with the Raptors and he writes: "He may not be the kind of sharpshooter Heslip is -- again, not many are -- but VanVleet is the more logical choice between the two given the role that needs to be filled."
If VanVleet does win the spot, the Raptors would release Heslip, Drew Crawford, Yanick Moreira, E.J. Singler and Jarrod Uthoff by Oct. 24, so as many as four of those players can be designated to Toronto's D-League team, Raptors 905.
--- Nick SilvaThe Milwaukee Bucks have been without forward Michael Beasley since Feb. 27, when he hyperextended his left knee. According to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, head coach Jason Kidd said Tuesday that Beasley will be re-evaluated in two weeks.
Until Beasley returns, Kidd will give Beasley's minutes to Mirza Teletovic and newly-signed Terrence Jones.
"Mirza has been great for us, knowing he's going to play," Kidd said. "He's a guy who is going to spread the floor for us and defensively he's helping us, being able to rebound the ball. ... The big thing is being in the right spots and he's been in the right spots."
Before the injury, Beasley had played in 50 games this season with the Bucks and is averaging 9.7 points and 3.6 rebounds.
--- Nick SilvaEmmanuel Mudiay had started 41 games prior to suffering a bout with back spasms, but after sitting out a few weeks, the Denver Nuggets point guard has found himself out of the rotation upon his return. Out of the last nine games, Mudiay has played in three and totaled just 15 minutes.
For now, coach Michael Malone will run with 13-year veteran Jameer Nelson as the starter and rookie Jamal Murray as the main backup at point guard.
"That’s probably one of the toughest decisions I’ve had to make in terms of what guards I’m going to go with," Malone told the Denver Post last week. "Emmanuel was starting for us for a year and a half, so for him to go from starter to sort of out of the rotation is a lot to handle for a young man."
Murray has gained a lot of confidence with his increased role and is averaging 10.6 points, 2.2 assists and 2.3 rebounds over the last 10 games. In his last five games, Murray is making 52 percent of his shots, including 42.1 percent from behind the 3-point line. Murray's shooting gives him the advantage over Mudiay, as the No. 7 selection in the 2015 NBA draft is making just 37 percent of his total shots this season and only 30.9 percent from behind the 3-point line.
When discussing his situation, Mudiay said he will continue to work hard and not get down on himself.
"It’s different, but I’m just trying to stay ready as much as possible," Mudiay said. "I’m just working on my game. I can only control what I can control."
Mudiay is one month away from completing his second regular season in the NBA, and by the time 2017-18 begins, there is a chance the Nuggets will have traded him to another team.
-- Nick SilvaFOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- What has become an annual New England sports May tradition was on full display Tuesday night at TD Garden, with New England Patriots players supporting the Boston Celtics in the NBA playoffs.
Patriots owner Robert Kraft has been known to attend Celtics game to show his support, as he did during a Round 2 playoff game this season. Bob DeChiara-USA TODAY Sports
Defensive captains Dont'a Hightower and Devin McCourty, linebacker Kyle Van Noy, and cornerbacks Stephon Gilmore and Jason McCourty were among those in attendance for the Celtics' 107-94 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Their presence, as usual, was captured on the videoboard above the court.
Dont'a Hightower, Kyle Van Noy, Stephon Gilmore, and the McCourty twins are at the TD Garden tonight. pic.twitter.com/9ZdEv81Aqe — Boston.com Patriots News (@BDCPatriots) May 16, 2018
The Patriots are in the fifth week of their voluntary offseason program, and for Van Noy, the chance to enjoy a night out and watch the NBA playoffs was a no-brainer.
The connections between the Celtics and Patriots have been highlighted in the past, with Celtics coach Brad Stevens noting how he's struck up a friendship with Patriots offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels. In an interview earlier this year, which was also part of the recently released "NFL: Game Theory and Money" podcast, Stevens discussed what he's learned from spending time with New England's coaching staff.
"I have taken advantage of going over there on a number of occasions, whether it's sitting through OTAs, practices, or meetings, whatever the case may be; it’s been really helpful," Stevens said on the podcast. "I think when you walk out of there, and I think I've said this before, you feel inadequate as a coach. Because their culture, the way they move from drill to drill, how they pull together, how connected they are, it's special. It does not happen everywhere."Ken O'Brien was in sixth grade, circa 1972, when he attended his first New York Jets practice. He was in from California on a family vacation, and his four uncles -- all single, all New York City police officers -- were charged with showing him a good time one summer afternoon. So they drove out to the Jets' training camp at Hofstra University on Long Island and young Ken wound up in the players' parking lot, sitting on a shiny new Cadillac.
"Nobody was going to mess with us because we had four badges with us," O'Brien recalled.
But in this particular precinct, NYPD Blue was outranked by NYQB Green, who happened to be the owner of the Cadillac:
It was legendary quarterback Joe Namath, who came out to his car, introduced himself and exchanged pleasantries with the boy and his uncles. This was one of those cosmic moments, when present and future intersect. Eleven years later, the boy would be anointed the second full-time successor to the Namath throne. We'll call him A.N. (After Namath) II.
Forty-two years after Joe Namath's last game with the Jets -- and almost 50 years after he delivered their only Super Bowl title -- the search continues for a franchise quarterback. Bettman archive
"That, to me, shows there's an energy out there that touches us all," Namath said the other day, channeling his inner 1960s as he recalled the chance meeting with O'Brien.
In some way, Namath has touched many of the men who have succeeded him, reaching down from his pedestal to offer wisdom and friendship. Unfortunately for the Jets and their tortured fan base, none of them have reached his level. Forty-two years after Namath's last game with the Jets -- and almost 50 years after he delivered their only Super Bowl title -- the search continues for a franchise quarterback.
Many of Namath's successors enjoyed varying degrees of success, and a few came tantalizingly close to the big prize only to get their hearts crushed into tiny pieces. (A couple of shoulders, a calf, an Achilles tendon and a jaw were damaged along the way, too). Twelve quarterbacks have held the job on a full-time basis in the post-Namath era -- behold, the Namath 12 -- but only four produced a winning record, never mind a championship.
"I’ll tell you why I think it is," Namath said of the perpetual search. "Luck is involved, of course, just like with most things in life. I’m quoting Don Shula now: He said, 'Luck is involved in football. When you don’t have a good quarterback, it’s a bad luck.'"
The franchise with the worst quarterback luck this side of the Cleveland Browns will try again Thursday. At approximately 8:30 p.m., the Jets will submit a draft card with the name of a quarterback, instantly turning that young man into A.N. XIII.
Will he be able to overcome nearly five decades of bad karma? Will the curse get him? Is it really a curse? Why can't the Jets get it right?
Let's look back -- and forward -- through the eyes of six men who played the position for the Jets: Namath, O'Brien, Boomer Esiason, Neil O'Donnell, Vinny Testaverde and Chad Pennington:
***
It started with Richard Todd. He was a first-round pick in 1976, out of Namath's alma mater, Alabama. He got the Jets to the 1982 AFC Championship Game, but his career died with five interceptions in the Miami mud.
The Jets used first-round picks on O'Brien (1983), Pennington (2000) and Mark Sanchez (2009), and second-round picks on Browning Nagle (1992) and Geno Smith (2013). They made big trades for Esiason (1993) and Brett Favre (2008), and a small trade for Ryan Fitzpatrick (2015). They spent huge money on a free agent, Neil O'Donnell (1996), who was the Kirk Cousins of his era. They also picked up castoffs, Vinny Testaverde (1998) and Josh McCown (2017).
There's your Namath 12.
2018 NFL DRAFT Round 1: Thursday, 8 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 2-3: Friday, 7 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 4-7: Sat., noon, ESPN/ABC/ESPN App
Where: Arlington, Texas
NFL draft coverage » | Full order: 1-256 » • Kiper's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• McShay's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• Kiper and McShay's draft reset »
• Draft predictions for all 32 teams »
• Draft Herbies: Kirk's best of the best »
• McShay's draft buzz: What I'm hearing »
• McShay's top five needs for every team »
ESIASON (1993-1995, record: 15-27): "Me, Testaverde, Neil O'Donnell, Favre ... we were all mercenaries. And mercenaries aren't the answer for the quarterback position. You need someone like Eli Manning with the Giants. The Jets have to find that guy. Chad was the closest to being that guy, but he couldn't get past the shoulder injuries and they fell in love with Brett Favre. Kenny O'Brien was in a good spot and had some success, but it all kind of fizzled."
PENNINGTON (2000-2007, record: 32-29): "I mean, shoot, if you think you’re going to be like Broadway Joe, you’re fooling yourself. But I did have that desire to be that stability and create a stable legacy. I never got hurt in college; I never had any major issues. I had that desire to bring that ... because you always hear from long-suffering Jets fans, their highs and lows. As a player, you’d like to sustain those highs and keep it stable and produce a winning product year after year."
NAMATH: "Testaverde, I liked him. Chad Pennington established himself. His best years were ahead of him when we let him go. Ken O'Brien had some of the darndest days. Wesley Walker was a big help, too. So was Mickey Shuler. There were some players. My buddy Richard Todd, I know people talk about that Mud Bowl down in Miami, but Richard was pretty darn good. They were good people and good citizens."
TESTAVERDE (1998-2005, record: 35-26): "Sanchez kind of had it going a little bit. They had the defense going, the offense was good enough to get them where they got to [two straight AFC title games], and they just couldn’t make the next step. From there, things started to unravel a little bit."
O'BRIEN (1983-1992, record: 50-55-1): "Pennington and Sanchez I thought were really good players. I think it was, at times, dysfunctional. No, that’s not the right word. I mean ‘dysfunctional’ in terms of what you were trying to get accomplished. I don’t think the direction was extremely clear and you become a product of that."
O'DONNELL (1996-1997, record: 8-12): "Coming back to New York was intriguing because I’m from that area, and I also thought I could really help the team by bringing a winning tradition into that locker room due to the fact that I came from Pittsburgh, where you were expected to win. It was exciting, but the change was hard, I’ll be honest with you -- the locker-room change, the environment change. We were at Hofstra, which was horrible. I never thought it would affect me, but every game was like an away game. It was just such a hard burden to change the whole culture and environment of winning."
***
It's inevitable. At some point, they experience that "Same Old Jets" moment, which can emerge in the form of heartbreak or injury.
In 2013, Sanchez, battling Smith for the starting job, was inserted into the fourth quarter of a preseason game and suffered a season-ending shoulder injury. He never played again for the Jets. In 2003, Pennington broke his left wrist in the preseason and missed six games. Of all the summertime injuries, nothing tops Smith's broken jaw. He was punched in the face during a locker room dispute with a teammate, ultimately costing him the starting job and forever altering his career.
O'DONNELL: "You remember my moment, don't you? I blew out my calf in pregame warmups. I was warming up in the end zone and there was so much paint on the letters. Plus, it was wet that day. I drop back and I said to Wayne [Chrebet], 'I think I just blew out my calf muscle or my Achilles.’ He said, ‘What? Get out of here.' I said, 'Dude, I’m not kidding. Somehow, get me over to the tunnel, I've got to get out of here.' When something happens like that, it’s like, wow, holy cow."
TESTAVERDE: "When I look back at my career with the Jets, I don't look back at the Achilles' injury (in the 1999 opener). I go back to the game in Denver and what could've been. That, to me, is my moment. It's hard to get over. It's the AFC Championship Game we should've won. Could've won, put it that way. That's the low moment for me. Injuries are going to happen, whether you're young, old or anywhere in between, but a shot at the Super Bowl doesn't come along that often."
ESIASON: "I went through three coaches in three years, a general manager [Dick Steinberg] who died and an owner who was fed up. I lived through all aspects of what the Jets have been. I loved it, with the exception of the last year [1995], when I took a vicious blow to the head. Everything changed that year. It was a matter of survival and I wasn't young enough and didn't have the energy to deal with all that crap."
O'DONNELL: "If we win [the 1997 finale] in Detroit, when I was pulled, we're in the playoffs. Remember that? If you go back and watch that tape, you know how we lost that game [a controversial halfback option pass intercepted in the end zone]. If that doesn't happen, who knows if I'm not back in New York? See what I mean? If we go to the playoffs and make a little run, I still may be in New York those last couple of years."
***
Counting temporary starters and injury replacements, a total of 30 quarterbacks have started at least one game in the post-Namath era -- 13 draft picks and 17 veteran acquisitions. The only ones to win a playoff game are Sanchez, Pennington, Testaverde and Pat Ryan.
In talking to the former quarterbacks, three themes emerged as reasons for the lack of success: Poor scouting, bad luck and a lack of organizational stability. Since 1990, they've gone through nine head coaches and 13 offensive coordinators, including six in the past eight years.
As for bad luck, the Jets thought they had a trade worked out during the 1991 draft that would've allowed them to pick Favre, but it fell through at the last minute. Desperate for a young quarterback, they reached for Nagle, who flopped. In 1997, they owned the No. 1 overall pick, but Peyton Manning decided to stay in school. In 1983, their personnel people fell in love with O'Brien, picking him over future Hall of Famer Dan Marino.
O'BRIEN: "I wish we could've won 10 Super Bowls, but we didn't. If I had to do it all over again, would I do anything different? Yeah, sure. Nothing specific, but when you're older and more mature, you look at things differently. It didn't work out all the time, but it was a great experience. I love New York and I love the fans. I'm proud of all of it."
NAMATH: "I'm not pointing fingers. I'm just saying, have we been unlucky picking a quarterback? Well, we haven't had the right eyes on the guys. We haven't had the right communication with the guys. It's bad luck to start with, but the rest? Who's doing this? Who's picking these guys? The 24-hour-a-day folks who have dedicated their lives to the job, fine, but if they've never played that position, they don't know what the heck goes on between the ears in any given situation."
PENNINGTON: "There's no question that luck plays a role. If we're going to sit here and say the Patriots knew Tom Brady would be their franchise guy, we're all fooling ourselves. If that's the case, we need to ask them to look in a crystal ball for all of us."
ESIASON: "The last time the Jets were totally stable was when Bill Parcells was in charge. Since he left [in 2001], and since Bill Belichick resigned as HC of the NYJ, they've been a perpetual pinball machine, with different guys running the franchise. Who's the GM? Who's the head coach? Where's the owner? Oh, right, he's in Great Britain."
NAMATH: "I'm not even going there."
TESTAVERDE: "I wish a young Testaverde could've played for Parcells or a Parcells-type coach earlier in my career, to have that type of coach who holds everybody accountable on the football team. ... It makes it tough for one individual when everybody is looking at him with great expectations. It's almost a save-the-world mentality."
PENNINGTON: "In today's NFL, with the rate of turnover and the lack of patience with staffs and being able to build a program, it's even harder to find a, quote-unquote, franchise guy even if he has the ability to be a franchise guy, because they're not going to be patient enough with him and build a system around him. Everyone doesn't consider Joe Flacco a franchise guy, but he's been able to hold down that organization for 10 years. I think the Jets would take that."
NAMATH: "New York is a challenge. Your focus can be broken in a lot of ways. The Big Apple, being the greatest city in the world, can catch a guy’s eye, can catch a guy’s ear, can take his mind off the function. It comes into play and you can’t run away from it. You should know what kind of guy you're getting ahead of time."
ESIASON: "They'd better get it right. For [GM] Mike Maccagnan, this is a defining moment. Can he find the long-term answer or will he show himself to be a guy incapable of making the right pick? If they blow it, they'll go 3-13 and fire Todd Bowles, starting over again. It's important they get the right guy in here, someone who can bring life to the franchise. Can they do it? [Pause.] Being realistic, I'd say the odds are very long."Several members of the Knicks organization, including general manager Steve Mills, will be in Chicago this week for the NBA draft combine. Mills & Co. will have a chance to interview and watch prospects as they prepare for the draft in late June – one of the most important nights in Phil Jackson’s presidency.
The Knicks will find out exactly where they pick on Tuesday night when the NBA holds its draft lottery. Based on probability, New York is most likely to pick seventh on June 22. The Knicks also have two second-round picks.
Members of the organization have been scouting players in the draft for months; there are a few players that those members have become fond of: French guard Frank Ntilikina and Kentucky guards De’Aaron Fox and Malik Monk, among others. Also, just like the rest of the NBA, members of the organization are also enamored by Markelle Fultz, Lonzo Ball and Josh Jackson.
The player the Knicks end up selecting will depend on how the pingpong balls bounce Tuesday.
Whom should they select? That’s up for debate.
In preparation for the draft combine, ESPN’s Fran Fraschilla and Jeff Goodman answered questions about prospects on a conference call Tuesday. Here is their assessment of some players on the Knicks’ radar:
Frank Ntilikina: “Well, the broader view here is there's likely to be five point guards drafted in the first 10. It's going to be interesting. And most likely because of the fact that people don't know him like they know the four college kids, he's going to go fifth,” Fraschilla said. “And what I love about him -- and by the way, I think he's going to be able to show you -- I hate to say this because I'm not a fan of the triangle, I think in the modern NBA the spacing doesn't work as well as it did in the old days, but he's a triangle kind of player, simply because he's not really a 1, and he's not really a 2. He's a guard.
“He can make decisions well. He shoots it well. He's athletic. He could be a good defender. And you're also looking at a kid who's still 18 years old. His long-term potential as an NBA player is very good. I watched him last summer at the Jordan Gym in New York City, and he made 27 out of 30 NBA 3s. I think people who didn't know him early on -- the obligatory line when you don't know somebody is, he's a really good athlete, but he's not a great shooter, and he's dispelling that this year in France, shooting over 40 percent from the international 3. He doesn't have the polish of a Fultz or Ball or the speed and athleticism or raw athleticism of Fox or Smith, but he has the look and feel of an NBA guard when he grows up.”
De’Aaron Fox: “I just would say quickly that obviously De'Aaron Fox's speed and athleticism, given the way the NBA game is at the moment -- that’s going to trump the fact that he has to continue to improve his shot,” Fraschilla said. “But I'm sure Jeff has talked to the same type of scouts who say, you cannot, in this modern NBA, teach his speed and athleticism, and unlike some of the non-shooting point guards in the league that are -- actually hurt their team, he is probably -- you could safely compare him to a young John Wall because of the same attributes. But it'll help him -- it's not in his DNA to be a great shooter, because he's never had to be, but it certainly helps him in his NBA future down the road if he continues to figure out a way to make some shots, but the speed and athleticism will get him drafted, obviously, in the top five or six.
Added Goodman: “I think he's only helped by his character, too. I mean, high-character kid, shined when it mattered in the NCAA tournament, for the most part. I think you're looking at a guy who's certainly going to go in the top 10 and could go as high as 5.”
Fran Fraschilla sees Malik Monk as an off-the-bench scorer in the NBA. Wade Payne/AP Photo
Malik Monk: “I wish he was 6-5 and not 6-3 with an average swing span, because for me the poster child for Malik Monk is what Jamal Crawford has done in his career. I think Malik, once he settles into his NBA career, is going to be a scorer off the bench,” Fraschilla said. “I know he probably wouldn't want to hear that, but he is a -- he is still a volume shooter. He had the ultimate green light in high school. He had a green light at Kentucky. It actually hurt them at times. He can put the ball in the basket. There's no doubt about it. But the fact that he's undersized, with a below-average wingspan for the position, he is going to have to become what I call a technician. He is really going to have to work on NBA footwork, creating space and separation. It's all there for him because when you draft these guys nowadays, for the most part, they're NBA Silly Putty. You get to mold them with your coaching staff. You know, I like him. His NBA future to me is a lead off-the-bench scorer.”
Added Goodman: “I think with Malik Monk, it's not being a volume guy. You know, being able to handle picking your spots in the NBA a little bit because who knows where he's going to go and how many shots he's going to get. He had a long leash in a sense for Kentucky because they needed him to score the ball, so I think it's going to be different for him, most likely, in the NBA, he's not going to come in and get 20 shots every game. So I think for him, it's just going to be consistency with his effort and with his production.”
Lastly, given his expressed disdain for the triangle and the Knicks’ emphasis of the offense, Fraschilla was asked whether he thought Fox or Monk was a better fit in the triangle: “I think you have to have a certain type of versatility and skill level to play in the triangle. De'Aaron is going to be able to fit most systems because of his speed,” he said. “I mean, it just doesn't make sense to walk the ball up the court in the modern NBA into a half-court triangle set, so he's going to be able to adjust. But you do have to have a certain type of versatility in my opinion to play in the pure triangle because everybody is interchangeable; you have to play multiple positions within the triangle, and that would cater to Frank's versatility versus De'Aaron's speed in the NBA game. But again, if you're not running in the NBA and trying to get easy baskets, you're probably not a playoff team.”AP Photo/Lynne Sladky
Seriously? Tyson Chandler, Defensive Player of the Year, didn't make the all-defensive first team.Tyson Chandler was named Defensive Player of the Year this season.
But he wasn't good enough to make the NBA's all-defensive first team.
The NBA announced on Wednesday that Chandler was voted to the all-defensive second team.
Oklahoma City's Serge Ibaka was the forward on the first team. Dwight Howard was the center.
Some felt Ibaka, based on his outsized statistics (3.65 blocks per game) deserved to win Defensive Player of the Year.
But Chandler won the award, based largely on his impact this year on the defensively-challenged Knicks.
In 2010-2011, the Knicks finished 21st in defensive efficiency, a measure of opponents' points scored per 100 possessions. This season, in Chandler's first with the team, New York finished fifth in defensive efficiency.
But why would Chandler win Defensive Player of the Year and not be named to the first team all-defense?
A select group of media votes on the Defensive Player of the Year. The NBA's all-defensive teams are voted on by NBA coaches.
Chandler wasn't the first Defensive Player of the Year to be named to the second all-defensive team.
Alvin Robertson (1986) and Dikembe Mutombo (1995) were also defensive players of the year on the second all-defensive team.
SHUMP GETS VOTES: Knicks guard Iman Shumpert established himself as one of the league's top perimeter defenders in his rookie season.
Along the way, he apparently impressed a few NBA head coaches.
Shumpert garnered four first-team votes and five second-team votes, for a total of 13 points. He was four points, or two first-place votes, shy of making the second team all-defense.
You can follow Ian Begley on Twitter.
Information from ESPNNewYork's Jared Zwerling was used in this report.This story appears in ESPN The Magazine's March 4 Analytics issue. Subscribe today!
Bob Voulgaris had become one of the most successful sports gamblers in the world when, in 2004, he started to lose. It wasn’t just a streak of bad luck, a series of randomly unfavorable outcomes that could last only so long. His edge, he realized, was gone.
He had begun betting on sports in the late 1990s, and within five years, before he had reached his 30th birthday, Voulgaris had accumulated a fortune. He says he routinely wagered a million dollars in a single day of NBA games. He considered his mean to be an unholy winning percentage that approached 70 percent. A man of no fixed address, he dated models and traveled the world. He was also an accomplished poker player, buying his way into high-stakes games from Las Vegas to Macau. He was essentially leading the fantasy life of your basic under-35 North American male.
A specialist in the NBA, his sports gambling success was almost completely the result of a kind of studied perspicacity, born of a talent for pattern recognition and the stamina to watch uncountable hours of televised basketball. In betting parlance, the man could suss out an edge -- and in 2002, he discovered one that would line his pockets for years. It all had to do with how most bookmakers set their halftime totals, the predicted number of points scored in each half of the game. Each half, of course, is its own discrete period of play, and the fourth quarters of close games can end in elongated foul-clogged stretches of free throws, timeouts, fast play and, hence, a burst of scoring. But incredibly, bookmakers at the time didn’t account for this fact; they simply arrived at a total for the full game and cut that figure roughly down the middle, assigning some 50 percent of the points to the first half and 50 percent to the second.
For years, Voulgaris exploited this edge, playing both sides of it repeatedly. It is possible to say that it alone made him millions, combined with some keen observations regarding the game-management tendencies of three head coaches: Eddie Jordan, Jerry Sloan and Byron Scott. “Those were three coaches I had nailed perfectly,” Voulgaris, now 37, says. “I knew exactly what they were going to do. I mean, it was a joke, it was so easy.”
In retrospect, he regrets only not having bet more aggressively during this halcyon period. “I thought it would last forever,” he tells me
when I visit him at the house he was then renting in the Hollywood Hills for $12,500 a month. “But it didn’t.” Eventually, the bookmakers did finally catch on. Responding specifically to the money they saw Voulgaris minting -- though, for the most part, they didn’t yet know the identity of the gambler winning with such consistency -- they forever altered the method by which they set their NBA halftime totals.
And that’s when Voulgaris started to lose. And lose big. He lost a third of his bankroll in the final month of the 2003-04 season alone. Exasperated, his patience gone, he started to “tilt,” boosting the volume of his wagers in an effort to win back what he’d already lost. He won’t quantify exactly how much he gave back to the bookmakers all told except to describe it as a catastrophic time. He took the second part of the 2004-05 NBA season off. Mulling things over, he realized he needed a new approach. In essence, he decided he could no longer rely on his ability to suss out edges by his wits alone. He needed the help of a new machine.
Like baseball after sabermetrics, like Wall Street in the 1970s, sports gambling over the past decade has undergone a quantitative revolution. Nearly every successful sports bettor in the world now uses some form of computer model to assist in the handicapping of sporting events. Like their brethren inside hedge funds, these gamblers are known as quants. Like the advanced trading systems operating on Wall Street, the models used by this technologically adroit breed of sports bettor are sometimes called black boxes. Their models (and their identities) are shrouded in secrecy. Their algorithms are proprietary. And with each passing year, their sophistication mounts. One veteran Las Vegas handicapper, who goes by the pseudonym Steve Fezzik, laments, “They’ve left me, and others like me, in the dark ages.” Bayesian methods, Monte Carlo methods, Markov chains, k-nearest neighbor algorithms, Chapman-Kolmogorov equations -- the key advances in statistical analysis, probability theory and predictive modeling have been marshaled toward the object of beating the bookies out of a dime. Their goal is nothing less than a sustainable edge.
It is a paradoxical quest. The history of sports betting is littered with the corpses of gamblers who have enjoyed spectacular runs only to flame out just as quickly when their edges die. When they see a gambler winning big, bookmakers correct their mistakes. Rival gamblers spot the same edges -- or copy them -- and bet the line back to plumb.
Indeed, while the wide availability of information in the Internet age and exponential increase in computer processing power have given rise to the sports gambling quant, those very same factors have made the pursuit of a sustainable edge that much more quixotic. The marketplace evolves. The betting public, square though it may be, is better informed than ever before: Reams of team and player statistics reside in the cloud, awaiting download. The bookmakers, meanwhile, have joined the quantitative battle. Some who formulate the opening lines (only a few still do so; all the others simply copycat) have engineered their own sophisticated models. Cantor Fitzgerald, the Wall Street trading firm, started a division called Cantor Gaming in 2008 to operate a sportsbook business in Las Vegas, then acquired the consulting firm that had been the oddsmaker of record for the gambling world. Cantor’s computer model is named Midas. Andrew Garrood, a former high-finance quant whose previous experience included developing pricing models for interest rate derivatives at a London bank, designed it. “It’s hubristic to believe that the edge you have today will be yours forever,” he says. “The marketplace will always catch up.”
None of this, of course, has stopped the world’s sharpest quant bettors from trying.
A slim six-footer with dark hair and dark eyes, Voulgaris talks fast. His eyes flit. He has the canny, quick-minded air of a merchant in a bazaar in the Eastern Mediterranean. Since birth, he seems never to have lacked for self-confidence. He likes to say that he had no mentors when it comes to his gambling career, but in reality, he did.
When Voulgaris was 18, he took a gap year between high school and college. First he traveled to Greece, visiting the hardscrabble villages -- Argos, Tripoli -- where his parents were born and raised before they immigrated, in their 20s, to Canada. (Voulgaris’ legal first name is Haralabos.) Then he and his father made a trip to Las Vegas, where they lived for most of the next two months at Caesars Palace. The elder Voulgaris had risen from poverty to become a successful Winnipeg entrepreneur. He developed commercial real estate; he owned and operated a Greek restaurant called Hermes -- the patron god of (among other things) games, sports and sudden enrichment. His net worth grew into the millions; he also happened to be an avid gambler. Voulgaris’ father bet on horses, sports of all kinds, card games, dice games, penny stocks. He was also, his son now suggests, the consummate square. “He would just hold up a newspaper and get a feel for what he wanted to bet. There was no rhyme or reason to it. He was very, very superstitious. He would have dreams, with, like, numbers and colors in them, and that would influence him.” Voulgaris says his father went broke twice, both times sending the family into near destitution. “Don’t write ‘degenerate,’ ” Voulgaris tells me. “He was an ‘unsuccessful’ gambler.”
Nevertheless, Voulgaris remembers those Vegas days fondly. He couldn’t join his father on the casino floor for his blackjack sessions; he was 18 and underage. So he spent most of his time in the Caesars sportsbook. Because it was basketball season, he watched a lot of NBA, but with a purpose. He paid attention to adjustments, the ebb and flow of the pace of play. He took notes on what he saw. He eavesdropped on his fellow gamblers. Even then, as a pup bettor, he had a dim view of this group: “Most people who are in a sportsbook in Las Vegas spouting their opinions are morons.” His father would join him at night. At times they wagered together. The younger Voulgaris recalls that his biggest bet the whole trip came on an Atlanta-Golden State game, $100 on the spread, “which I lost.” These were formative times. His two months in Vegas -- and, really, the whole of his childhood -- were an education by counterexample. But while many people, if faced with Voulgaris’ early experiences, might have renounced the gambling life with the fervor of a prohibitionist, Voulgaris seems to have gleaned a kind of edge from it. “I learned at a young age that it’s tough to beat the house,” he says. “Unless you know what you’re doing.” By the time the younger Voulgaris was enrolled at the University of Manitoba, working as a skycap at the airport and betting small amounts on the NBA and CFL, he and his brother -- two of four siblings in all -- were paying their parents’ rent.
The first computer model put into the service of sports gambling dates to the late 1970s, when Michael Kent, a former nuclear submarine engineer for a Pentagon contractor, wrote a program that predicted NFL, college football and college basketball scores. Kent fed his algorithms, inscribed on punch cards, into a rented mainframe that had less processing speed than today’s high-end laptops. At the time, though, he was going up against green-eyeshade bookmakers armed with nothing more than adding machines and intuition. It was hardly a fair fight. Kent eventually moved to Las Vegas, where a betting syndicate -- the legendary Computer Group -- formed around his work, winning untold millions for its members well into the 1990s. Kent continued to develop models and bet on sports up until seven years ago. He is now retired, according to his lawyer, his whereabouts closely guarded. “He’s very reclusive,” the lawyer, Steven Brooks, says.
Billy Walters, a core member of the Computer Group, has, however, stayed in the game; he now has a staff of consulting mathematicians who have built advanced predictive models to project scores. Walters, Kent and their syndicates stood basically alone until the late 1990s, when PCs became powerful enough to do the computation work required by predictive models, and more data became available to feed them.
Voulgaris was well aware of these predecessors. Analytics and predictive modeling had “always fascinated me,” he says. “I’d always wanted to have a model of sorts.” Throughout his career, Voulgaris had been what is known as a subjective bettor, albeit one so astute that he became a whale. Two huge bets -- both for the Lakers to win the title in 1999 and 2000 -- had turned about $80,000 in savings into more than $1 million, his first fat bankroll. As a purely subjective bettor, Voulgaris had been placing perhaps 350 individual wagers each season. But after the disastrous end to the 2004 season, with his edge gone, he decided that he should increase his betting frequency by an order of magnitude but decrease the sums he was putting at risk on each wager. It only made probabilistic sense. If his return on investment (ROI) fell from 20 percent to, say, 5 percent, that was okay. Five percent of $50 million is better than 20 percent of $5 million (all figures are hypothetical; Voulgaris is as cagey as any gambler about the true size of his bankroll). This new approach would require an enormous amount of research and analysis. It would require projecting a score for each and every game in an NBA regular season -- all 1,230. A single human mind would be overwhelmed by the workload; only a computer program could handle it.
“If you think about it,” he says, “you’d be a slave to the game of basketball otherwise.”
Voulgaris chose the right moment to start building a predictive model for NBA games. Four years earlier, in the 2002-03 season, the league had for the first time made play-by-play information available to the public, whereas before only box scores were published. This trove of fresh information had no immediate practical value, except perhaps to assuage fan curiosity. But by 2006, a large enough sample of data had accumulated to employ it with scientific rigor.
To help him build his model, Voulgaris required a specialist in the field, a mind trained in the codes of statistics, mathematics and computer science. He started the search in 2005. It took him two years and six individual tryouts -- most of those interviewees were found online, Voulgaris says, and two of them landed in NBA front offices -- to find the right person. The right person was a literal math prodigy. As a preteen, he had won national math contests; he had been the subject of awestruck articles in major newspapers. He had scored a perfect 800 on the math portion of the SAT when he was in seventh grade. At the time of his interview with Voulgaris, he had just quit a high-paying job designing algorithms for an East Coast hedge fund with a roster of Nobel-grade quant talent. Voulgaris does not wish to have the name of this math whiz appear in print, presumably out of fear that some rival will attempt to find the whiz -- let’s call him the Whiz -- and poach him. When I visit Voulgaris at his rental in the Hollywood Hills, he tells me that he’s recently made the Whiz his partner. “50-50?” I ask.
“No.”
The relationship got off to a rocky start. In 2007 the Whiz basically spun his wheels striving to build a model on his own during his first offseason in Voulgaris’ employ. “He was optimistic that he’d be able to come up with something by the time basketball season started,” Voulgaris says, “and he just flailed away.” Voulgaris decided to shorten the leash, and together the two determined that what they needed was a program that could simulate a game of basketball between any two teams at any point in a season and spit out a projected score. To do so, they would have to break the game down into its basic unit, the possession. Each simulation would therefore be a series of mini-simulations. First, the program would have to predict the number of possessions each matchup would likely produce. Then it would need to judge the likeliest outcome of each possession: Score or no score; one point, two points or three; micro-forecasts ascertained from historical performance data. It would also have to take into account a vast number of potential occurrences, each missed shot or successful rebound creating the possibility of still other occurrences -- a garden of explosively forking paths, as if in parallel universes. The program would run tens of thousands of simulations for each matchup, discarding the most outlandish or improbable results. It would be a black box -- prophecy as output.
Between the statistical analysis, the algorithms and the programming, it took two years to create their first model, version 1.0. Voulgaris continued to bet subjectively, marking time until the model was ready. When they finished, they called it Ewing. (It wasn’t named after Patrick, per se, but after the “Ewing Theory,” a purported phenomenon famously described by Bill Simmons under which a team improves whenever its overrated superstar leaves the franchise.) At some point in the process of breaking the game down into its component parts, they realized that Ewing would also require a kind of feeder model, one that could forecast the lineups a team would most likely use each game and the minutes each player was likely to see on the court. They called that model Van Gundy. Van Gundy, in turn, required its own feeder tool, one that would track the overall roster patterns for each team, the trades, the draft picks, the midseason player-acquisition tendencies. That database, less intricate than the other two, they at times jokingly referred to as Morey, as in Daryl Morey, the quant-minded GM of the Rockets. Ewing, Van Gundy, Morey. Player, coach, GM. The names of each corresponding, of course, to the job of each tool.
In the summer of 2007, Voulgaris and the Whiz took Ewing on a dry run, testing the simulator against games from the previous season to see how accurately it could retroactively “predict.” But something funky was happening. Every score the model spit out was higher than the average lines produced by the bookmakers -- the standard by which they would be judging themselves. The model, in other words, was recommending that Voulgaris bet the over in every single game. After weeks spent poring through code, Voulgaris finally caught the flaw. When assigning variables in the model, the Whiz had somehow assumed that the league-average free throw percentage was 88 percent, when in fact it’s around 75 percent -- an absurd mistake on the part of the Whiz, whose basketball knowledge at the time was practically nil. In more advanced versions of Ewing, they would jettison this primitive free throw method. Now, says Voulgaris, they’ve adjusted Ewing so that it predicts the player most likely to be fouled on any given individual possession, then uses that player’s specific free throw percentage to run its simulation.
If Ewing has a secret sauce, it’s just this sort of thing: Finding scraps of information, sliced and diced ever more finely, that reveal something about how a system -- in this case, a game of pro basketball -- will operate in the future. The key is to find those scraps that are more predictive than others. Case in point: One of Ewing’s most important functions is to assign values to players. Each player has two values -- on offense and as a defender -- and those values are constantly changing. Ewing will also automatically adjust the value depending on who’s guarding whom. Oklahoma City’s Kendrick Perkins “is more valuable guarding Dwight Howard than he is guarding Shane Battier,” Voulgaris says. Why? “Because Howard is a unique player, and you need a big to defend him.” Likewise, according to Voulgaris, Celtics seven-footer Jason Collins is “useless every game, except when he’s guarding Howard, which he does really, really well.” Player values also change across a season and a career. So Voulgaris and the Whiz created, for Ewing, an aging component. Further number-crunching revealed that different types of players, based on position and size, will reach their zeniths at different ages and on trajectories that are possible to predict. Ewing now grasps the curve of the lifespan of the point guard, the shooting guard, the forwards, the center -- and predicts the downslope and expiration date of every NBA career.
When Ewing went live with actual betting for the first time toward the end of the 2008 season, Voulgaris was not yet sold on its powers. For one thing, his subjective-gambler side wasn’t ready to surrender control to a machine. For another, the model was performing unremarkably with their money on the line -- right above the break-even line. But Voulgaris had something in mind, “a long project, like a six-month-long project, to model a certain part of the game of basketball.” He and the Whiz spent the offseason pursuing this mysterious project, the precise nature of which Voulgaris will not discuss. “I don’t even want to allude to what it might be,” he says when I press him, “because I don’t think anyone else is doing anything like it.”
By 2009, once they’d added this mysterious additional model to Ewing’s inner workings -- version 2.0 -- they started making bets based on the scores it produced after the All-Star break. “We just, like, crushed the second half of the season,” Voulgaris says. Since then, as each subsequent season has passed, Voulgaris’ confidence in Ewing has increased. So too has the frequency of his wagering. In a season, he now regularly puts down well over 1,000 individual bets. “I mean, I don’t want to sit here and brag,” he says. “But this is literally, like, the greatest thing ever when it comes to sports betting.”
Despite believing himself to be in possession of the world’s most lethal gambling device, Voulgaris, in the middle of Ewing’s second season on the job, nearly walked away from it all. It might come as little surprise to learn that Voulgaris has intermittently dreamed of becoming the general manager of an NBA franchise. “This is going to sound really arrogant,” he says. “But the whole process” -- of studying the game of basketball with the end of beating the books -- “has led me to believe that I’d be able to put together a better team than almost any general manager in the league. If not maybe all.”
In pursuit of this, in 2010 Voulgaris broke one of the cardinal rules of the sharp sports bettor: He sought publicity, conducting interviews with gambling and NBA-centric blogs. As with everything Voulgaris does, it was a calculated move. He wanted to burnish his bona fides as a quantitative basketball expert. And it worked. Despite the fact that he was giving up a yearly income that he says would dwarf all but the highest-paid executive in the NBA -- who is Jerry West of Golden State, Voulgaris is quick to point out -- he stopped gambling and signed a contract during the 2009-10 season with one of the co-owners of an NBA franchise to consult on matters of player acquisition and roster assembly. The owner, according to Voulgaris, made certain alluring pledges. “He was like, ‘You could be my GM someday; we can do this together.’ It was this whole spiel.”
Voulgaris won’t name names, nor will he say how he first met this particular owner. He has had contact with other NBA executives; he has met, for example, Daryl Morey. (Voulgaris has assured me that it wasn’t the Rockets he consulted for.) As his move to the NBA suggests, there is today much common currency between the analytical work of the sports gambler and that of an increasing number of professional teams’ front offices; one of the chief goals of both, after all, is to value players. The quant revolution in sports at large has brought these two worlds closer together than ever before, at least intellectually. Every winter at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference, members of the gambling community openly intermingle with GMs and their staffs of wonkish analysts.
“If I were the general manager of a team,” says Voulgaris, who will be attending the Sloan conference for the second time, in early March, “and I had someone building models and doing quantitative work -- if that person could not beat the Las Vegas line, his model wouldn’t be worth anything to me.” The reason? The way he sees it, the best and perhaps the only way to test one’s theories about player value is to take those theories to market. And the only market that’s liquid with money flows in the billions is the betting line, where opinions have a daily price. “Over thousands of samples of games, our model is constantly being tested on whether it’s right or wrong,” Voulgaris says. “If we’re wrong, we lose money. If we’re right, we make money.”
Voulgaris spent five months working for the NBA franchise. He says he advised his co-owner client on several trades. But he also felt excluded, held at arm’s length. “It was like if someone put a puzzle in front of you and said, ‘Solve this.’ But then, in order to solve it, you needed this special key that they weren’t going to give you.” He feels now that for all the momentum of the quant revolution in the NBA, there may be a glass ceiling for its true practitioners. “There’s a real disconnect between the basketball people, the business people and the -- for lack of a better word -- stats nerds. The stats nerds have no chance of ever becoming general managers. They’re just being used as a resource to mine.” At the end of the contract’s term, in the summer of 2010, Voulgaris decided to end his NBA flirtation and go back to being a gambler.
In truth, though, what Voulgaris says he missed most during his five-month hiatus from gambling was the gamble itself: “I was bored out of my tree.” Little wonder, given the frisson of his betting sessions. During the NBA regular season, which he splits between any number of North American and international ports of call, he watches as many games as he can, clocking more than 80 hours a week. No matter where he is -- LA or, say, Monaco, where he rents a flat -- his normal position during his game-day gambling shifts is supine on a couch, feet up on an ottoman, body nearly horizontal, a MacBook Pro resting between his lap and his knees, Ewing’s interface on the laptop’s screen, his dog (a Jack Russell named Coltrane) lying under his feet. He typically faces a wall against which rises a rack of Samsung flat-screens: a 65-inch central TV flanked on both sides by vertical ranks of three 40-inch screens, each showing a game. From here, he orchestrates his wagering: Ewing spits out a projected score and a number representing its level of confidence for each potential wager. Any projection above a certain threshold on that confidence scale Voulgaris will bet, though he sometimes overrides Ewing’s recommendations. He shows no emotion while watching the games on which he’s laid tens and perhaps hundreds of thousands, though he does very much sweat it on the inside, he says. In his words, “You’d have no chance of telling whether I was winning or losing.” During the season, he will bet, watch games, eat and sleep -- in that order of importance -- and do little else. To stay in shape, he doesn’t consume food after nightfall. This is a lifestyle not exactly conducive to relationships: He partly attributes his recent breakup with a girlfriend of five years to his odd hours during the season.
Despite it all, Voulgaris faces the same issue that all sharps face: the sustainability of his edge, no matter how sophisticated the model that produces it. When he returned to gambling for the 2010-11 season, Voulgaris says Ewing clocked an ROI of more than 6 percent. By 2011-12, it had fallen to 5.14 percent. Of course, the lockout-shortened season made for a bizarre outlier year, and Voulgaris and the Whiz had to adjust. Basically they subtracted a varying amount from the scores Ewing gave them, trying to account for the rust that kept scoring low at the start of the season, and the compressed number of games that later fatigued players -- and also kept scoring low -- toward the end of the season. But the limits of Ewing were apparent to Voulgaris. Already he sensed the inevitable. “We’re probably already at the point where my capability to make money is decreasing every year,” he says. “Every time you make a bet, you’re educating the people taking the bets. They’re learning the right way to make a line. They figure s -- out based on what you’ve already figured out.”
If, year after year, his margins are deteriorating, Voulgaris must increase the number of bets he makes in order to account for that slippage, just as he did when he moved from a subjective to a quant approach. He and the Whiz tweak Ewing in a ceaseless effort to incrementally improve its ability to spit out projections that carry high-enough confidence readings. “You’re not even improving it so much as trying to stop it from getting worse.” Like a fund manager, he must cope with the fine line between ROI, the number of bets he makes and the natural volatility caused by the random. The more he wagers, the more he courts ruin. In one unguarded moment, he tells me, “You can’t do this forever.”
When I visit him in LA over the summer, he and the Whiz are working to finish several potential alterations to Ewing, incorporating offseason player movements and adjusting the model to account for the weird data produced by the 2011-12 campaign. The predictive tool will end up responding in a very predictable way: Its margins will continue to narrow. By the middle of the 2012-13 season, Voulgaris will only say, “This has been one of the more difficult years.”
Voulgaris has only a blurry eye on his own future; Ewing’s simulations can’t help with that sort of prediction. Maybe, he muses at one point, it will be that sports gambling is someday legalized throughout the U.S., which will unleash a thundering flood of square money from casual bettors, exponentially increasing the liquidity in the market. The limits that bookmakers place on bets would increase and so would Ewing’s edge. The prospect makes Voulgaris as giddy as it’s possible for him to be. “That would literally be, like, the best thing ever,” he says. He wonders whether he could become a gambler akin to the Brit Tony Bloom, whose predictive soccer model won him enough quid to acquire the recently promoted Brighton FC. “It’s good to have goals in life, no matter how unrealistic,” Voulgaris says with a wry grin. And with enough gambling winnings, he says he would have only one goal.
“I would buy a basketball team.”This story appears in ESPN The Magazine's March 4 Analytics issue. Subscribe today!
Bob Voulgaris had become one of the most successful sports gamblers in the world when, in 2004, he started to lose. It wasn’t just a streak of bad luck, a series of randomly unfavorable outcomes that could last only so long. His edge, he realized, was gone.
He had begun betting on sports in the late 1990s, and within five years, before he had reached his 30th birthday, Voulgaris had accumulated a fortune. He says he routinely wagered a million dollars in a single day of NBA games. He considered his mean to be an unholy winning percentage that approached 70 percent. A man of no fixed address, he dated models and traveled the world. He was also an accomplished poker player, buying his way into high-stakes games from Las Vegas to Macau. He was essentially leading the fantasy life of your basic under-35 North American male.
A specialist in the NBA, his sports gambling success was almost completely the result of a kind of studied perspicacity, born of a talent for pattern recognition and the stamina to watch uncountable hours of televised basketball. In betting parlance, the man could suss out an edge -- and in 2002, he discovered one that would line his pockets for years. It all had to do with how most bookmakers set their halftime totals, the predicted number of points scored in each half of the game. Each half, of course, is its own discrete period of play, and the fourth quarters of close games can end in elongated foul-clogged stretches of free throws, timeouts, fast play and, hence, a burst of scoring. But incredibly, bookmakers at the time didn’t account for this fact; they simply arrived at a total for the full game and cut that figure roughly down the middle, assigning some 50 percent of the points to the first half and 50 percent to the second.
For years, Voulgaris exploited this edge, playing both sides of it repeatedly. It is possible to say that it alone made him millions, combined with some keen observations regarding the game-management tendencies of three head coaches: Eddie Jordan, Jerry Sloan and Byron Scott. “Those were three coaches I had nailed perfectly,” Voulgaris, now 37, says. “I knew exactly what they were going to do. I mean, it was a joke, it was so easy.”
In retrospect, he regrets only not having bet more aggressively during this halcyon period. “I thought it would last forever,” he tells me
when I visit him at the house he was then renting in the Hollywood Hills for $12,500 a month. “But it didn’t.” Eventually, the bookmakers did finally catch on. Responding specifically to the money they saw Voulgaris minting -- though, for the most part, they didn’t yet know the identity of the gambler winning with such consistency -- they forever altered the method by which they set their NBA halftime totals.
And that’s when Voulgaris started to lose. And lose big. He lost a third of his bankroll in the final month of the 2003-04 season alone. Exasperated, his patience gone, he started to “tilt,” boosting the volume of his wagers in an effort to win back what he’d already lost. He won’t quantify exactly how much he gave back to the bookmakers all told except to describe it as a catastrophic time. He took the second part of the 2004-05 NBA season off. Mulling things over, he realized he needed a new approach. In essence, he decided he could no longer rely on his ability to suss out edges by his wits alone. He needed the help of a new machine.
Like baseball after sabermetrics, like Wall Street in the 1970s, sports gambling over the past decade has undergone a quantitative revolution. Nearly every successful sports bettor in the world now uses some form of computer model to assist in the handicapping of sporting events. Like their brethren inside hedge funds, these gamblers are known as quants. Like the advanced trading systems operating on Wall Street, the models used by this technologically adroit breed of sports bettor are sometimes called black boxes. Their models (and their identities) are shrouded in secrecy. Their algorithms are proprietary. And with each passing year, their sophistication mounts. One veteran Las Vegas handicapper, who goes by the pseudonym Steve Fezzik, laments, “They’ve left me, and others like me, in the dark ages.” Bayesian methods, Monte Carlo methods, Markov chains, k-nearest neighbor algorithms, Chapman-Kolmogorov equations -- the key advances in statistical analysis, probability theory and predictive modeling have been marshaled toward the object of beating the bookies out of a dime. Their goal is nothing less than a sustainable edge.
It is a paradoxical quest. The history of sports betting is littered with the corpses of gamblers who have enjoyed spectacular runs only to flame out just as quickly when their edges die. When they see a gambler winning big, bookmakers correct their mistakes. Rival gamblers spot the same edges -- or copy them -- and bet the line back to plumb.
Indeed, while the wide availability of information in the Internet age and exponential increase in computer processing power have given rise to the sports gambling quant, those very same factors have made the pursuit of a sustainable edge that much more quixotic. The marketplace evolves. The betting public, square though it may be, is better informed than ever before: Reams of team and player statistics reside in the cloud, awaiting download. The bookmakers, meanwhile, have joined the quantitative battle. Some who formulate the opening lines (only a few still do so; all the others simply copycat) have engineered their own sophisticated models. Cantor Fitzgerald, the Wall Street trading firm, started a division called Cantor Gaming in 2008 to operate a sportsbook business in Las Vegas, then acquired the consulting firm that had been the oddsmaker of record for the gambling world. Cantor’s computer model is named Midas. Andrew Garrood, a former high-finance quant whose previous experience included developing pricing models for interest rate derivatives at a London bank, designed it. “It’s hubristic to believe that the edge you have today will be yours forever,” he says. “The marketplace will always catch up.”
None of this, of course, has stopped the world’s sharpest quant bettors from trying.
A slim six-footer with dark hair and dark eyes, Voulgaris talks fast. His eyes flit. He has the canny, quick-minded air of a merchant in a bazaar in the Eastern Mediterranean. Since birth, he seems never to have lacked for self-confidence. He likes to say that he had no mentors when it comes to his gambling career, but in reality, he did.
When Voulgaris was 18, he took a gap year between high school and college. First he traveled to Greece, visiting the hardscrabble villages -- Argos, Tripoli -- where his parents were born and raised before they immigrated, in their 20s, to Canada. (Voulgaris’ legal first name is Haralabos.) Then he and his father made a trip to Las Vegas, where they lived for most of the next two months at Caesars Palace. The elder Voulgaris had risen from poverty to become a successful Winnipeg entrepreneur. He developed commercial real estate; he owned and operated a Greek restaurant called Hermes -- the patron god of (among other things) games, sports and sudden enrichment. His net worth grew into the millions; he also happened to be an avid gambler. Voulgaris’ father bet on horses, sports of all kinds, card games, dice games, penny stocks. He was also, his son now suggests, the consummate square. “He would just hold up a newspaper and get a feel for what he wanted to bet. There was no rhyme or reason to it. He was very, very superstitious. He would have dreams, with, like, numbers and colors in them, and that would influence him.” Voulgaris says his father went broke twice, both times sending the family into near destitution. “Don’t write ‘degenerate,’ ” Voulgaris tells me. “He was an ‘unsuccessful’ gambler.”
Nevertheless, Voulgaris remembers those Vegas days fondly. He couldn’t join his father on the casino floor for his blackjack sessions; he was 18 and underage. So he spent most of his time in the Caesars sportsbook. Because it was basketball season, he watched a lot of NBA, but with a purpose. He paid attention to adjustments, the ebb and flow of the pace of play. He took notes on what he saw. He eavesdropped on his fellow gamblers. Even then, as a pup bettor, he had a dim view of this group: “Most people who are in a sportsbook in Las Vegas spouting their opinions are morons.” His father would join him at night. At times they wagered together. The younger Voulgaris recalls that his biggest bet the whole trip came on an Atlanta-Golden State game, $100 on the spread, “which I lost.” These were formative times. His two months in Vegas -- and, really, the whole of his childhood -- were an education by counterexample. But while many people, if faced with Voulgaris’ early experiences, might have renounced the gambling life with the fervor of a prohibitionist, Voulgaris seems to have gleaned a kind of edge from it. “I learned at a young age that it’s tough to beat the house,” he says. “Unless you know what you’re doing.” By the time the younger Voulgaris was enrolled at the University of Manitoba, working as a skycap at the airport and betting small amounts on the NBA and CFL, he and his brother -- two of four siblings in all -- were paying their parents’ rent.
The first computer model put into the service of sports gambling dates to the late 1970s, when Michael Kent, a former nuclear submarine engineer for a Pentagon contractor, wrote a program that predicted NFL, college football and college basketball scores. Kent fed his algorithms, inscribed on punch cards, into a rented mainframe that had less processing speed than today’s high-end laptops. At the time, though, he was going up against green-eyeshade bookmakers armed with nothing more than adding machines and intuition. It was hardly a fair fight. Kent eventually moved to Las Vegas, where a betting syndicate -- the legendary Computer Group -- formed around his work, winning untold millions for its members well into the 1990s. Kent continued to develop models and bet on sports up until seven years ago. He is now retired, according to his lawyer, his whereabouts closely guarded. “He’s very reclusive,” the lawyer, Steven Brooks, says.
Billy Walters, a core member of the Computer Group, has, however, stayed in the game; he now has a staff of consulting mathematicians who have built advanced predictive models to project scores. Walters, Kent and their syndicates stood basically alone until the late 1990s, when PCs became powerful enough to do the computation work required by predictive models, and more data became available to feed them.
Voulgaris was well aware of these predecessors. Analytics and predictive modeling had “always fascinated me,” he says. “I’d always wanted to have a model of sorts.” Throughout his career, Voulgaris had been what is known as a subjective bettor, albeit one so astute that he became a whale. Two huge bets -- both for the Lakers to win the title in 1999 and 2000 -- had turned about $80,000 in savings into more than $1 million, his first fat bankroll. As a purely subjective bettor, Voulgaris had been placing perhaps 350 individual wagers each season. But after the disastrous end to the 2004 season, with his edge gone, he decided that he should increase his betting frequency by an order of magnitude but decrease the sums he was putting at risk on each wager. It only made probabilistic sense. If his return on investment (ROI) fell from 20 percent to, say, 5 percent, that was okay. Five percent of $50 million is better than 20 percent of $5 million (all figures are hypothetical; Voulgaris is as cagey as any gambler about the true size of his bankroll). This new approach would require an enormous amount of research and analysis. It would require projecting a score for each and every game in an NBA regular season -- all 1,230. A single human mind would be overwhelmed by the workload; only a computer program could handle it.
“If you think about it,” he says, “you’d be a slave to the game of basketball otherwise.”
Voulgaris chose the right moment to start building a predictive model for NBA games. Four years earlier, in the 2002-03 season, the league had for the first time made play-by-play information available to the public, whereas before only box scores were published. This trove of fresh information had no immediate practical value, except perhaps to assuage fan curiosity. But by 2006, a large enough sample of data had accumulated to employ it with scientific rigor.
To help him build his model, Voulgaris required a specialist in the field, a mind trained in the codes of statistics, mathematics and computer science. He started the search in 2005. It took him two years and six individual tryouts -- most of those interviewees were found online, Voulgaris says, and two of them landed in NBA front offices -- to find the right person. The right person was a literal math prodigy. As a preteen, he had won national math contests; he had been the subject of awestruck articles in major newspapers. He had scored a perfect 800 on the math portion of the SAT when he was in seventh grade. At the time of his interview with Voulgaris, he had just quit a high-paying job designing algorithms for an East Coast hedge fund with a roster of Nobel-grade quant talent. Voulgaris does not wish to have the name of this math whiz appear in print, presumably out of fear that some rival will attempt to find the whiz -- let’s call him the Whiz -- and poach him. When I visit Voulgaris at his rental in the Hollywood Hills, he tells me that he’s recently made the Whiz his partner. “50-50?” I ask.
“No.”
The relationship got off to a rocky start. In 2007 the Whiz basically spun his wheels striving to build a model on his own during his first offseason in Voulgaris’ employ. “He was optimistic that he’d be able to come up with something by the time basketball season started,” Voulgaris says, “and he just flailed away.” Voulgaris decided to shorten the leash, and together the two determined that what they needed was a program that could simulate a game of basketball between any two teams at any point in a season and spit out a projected score. To do so, they would have to break the game down into its basic unit, the possession. Each simulation would therefore be a series of mini-simulations. First, the program would have to predict the number of possessions each matchup would likely produce. Then it would need to judge the likeliest outcome of each possession: Score or no score; one point, two points or three; micro-forecasts ascertained from historical performance data. It would also have to take into account a vast number of potential occurrences, each missed shot or successful rebound creating the possibility of still other occurrences -- a garden of explosively forking paths, as if in parallel universes. The program would run tens of thousands of simulations for each matchup, discarding the most outlandish or improbable results. It would be a black box -- prophecy as output.
Between the statistical analysis, the algorithms and the programming, it took two years to create their first model, version 1.0. Voulgaris continued to bet subjectively, marking time until the model was ready. When they finished, they called it Ewing. (It wasn’t named after Patrick, per se, but after the “Ewing Theory,” a purported phenomenon famously described by Bill Simmons under which a team improves whenever its overrated superstar leaves the franchise.) At some point in the process of breaking the game down into its component parts, they realized that Ewing would also require a kind of feeder model, one that could forecast the lineups a team would most likely use each game and the minutes each player was likely to see on the court. They called that model Van Gundy. Van Gundy, in turn, required its own feeder tool, one that would track the overall roster patterns for each team, the trades, the draft picks, the midseason player-acquisition tendencies. That database, less intricate than the other two, they at times jokingly referred to as Morey, as in Daryl Morey, the quant-minded GM of the Rockets. Ewing, Van Gundy, Morey. Player, coach, GM. The names of each corresponding, of course, to the job of each tool.
In the summer of 2007, Voulgaris and the Whiz took Ewing on a dry run, testing the simulator against games from the previous season to see how accurately it could retroactively “predict.” But something funky was happening. Every score the model spit out was higher than the average lines produced by the bookmakers -- the standard by which they would be judging themselves. The model, in other words, was recommending that Voulgaris bet the over in every single game. After weeks spent poring through code, Voulgaris finally caught the flaw. When assigning variables in the model, the Whiz had somehow assumed that the league-average free throw percentage was 88 percent, when in fact it’s around 75 percent -- an absurd mistake on the part of the Whiz, whose basketball knowledge at the time was practically nil. In more advanced versions of Ewing, they would jettison this primitive free throw method. Now, says Voulgaris, they’ve adjusted Ewing so that it predicts the player most likely to be fouled on any given individual possession, then uses that player’s specific free throw percentage to run its simulation.
If Ewing has a secret sauce, it’s just this sort of thing: Finding scraps of information, sliced and diced ever more finely, that reveal something about how a system -- in this case, a game of pro basketball -- will operate in the future. The key is to find those scraps that are more predictive than others. Case in point: One of Ewing’s most important functions is to assign values to players. Each player has two values -- on offense and as a defender -- and those values are constantly changing. Ewing will also automatically adjust the value depending on who’s guarding whom. Oklahoma City’s Kendrick Perkins “is more valuable guarding Dwight Howard than he is guarding Shane Battier,” Voulgaris says. Why? “Because Howard is a unique player, and you need a big to defend him.” Likewise, according to Voulgaris, Celtics seven-footer Jason Collins is “useless every game, except when he’s guarding Howard, which he does really, really well.” Player values also change across a season and a career. So Voulgaris and the Whiz created, for Ewing, an aging component. Further number-crunching revealed that different types of players, based on position and size, will reach their zeniths at different ages and on trajectories that are possible to predict. Ewing now grasps the curve of the lifespan of the point guard, the shooting guard, the forwards, the center -- and predicts the downslope and expiration date of every NBA career.
When Ewing went live with actual betting for the first time toward the end of the 2008 season, Voulgaris was not yet sold on its powers. For one thing, his subjective-gambler side wasn’t ready to surrender control to a machine. For another, the model was performing unremarkably with their money on the line -- right above the break-even line. But Voulgaris had something in mind, “a long project, like a six-month-long project, to model a certain part of the game of basketball.” He and the Whiz spent the offseason pursuing this mysterious project, the precise nature of which Voulgaris will not discuss. “I don’t even want to allude to what it might be,” he says when I press him, “because I don’t think anyone else is doing anything like it.”
By 2009, once they’d added this mysterious additional model to Ewing’s inner workings -- version 2.0 -- they started making bets based on the scores it produced after the All-Star break. “We just, like, crushed the second half of the season,” Voulgaris says. Since then, as each subsequent season has passed, Voulgaris’ confidence in Ewing has increased. So too has the frequency of his wagering. In a season, he now regularly puts down well over 1,000 individual bets. “I mean, I don’t want to sit here and brag,” he says. “But this is literally, like, the greatest thing ever when it comes to sports betting.”
Despite believing himself to be in possession of the world’s most lethal gambling device, Voulgaris, in the middle of Ewing’s second season on the job, nearly walked away from it all. It might come as little surprise to learn that Voulgaris has intermittently dreamed of becoming the general manager of an NBA franchise. “This is going to sound really arrogant,” he says. “But the whole process” -- of studying the game of basketball with the end of beating the books -- “has led me to believe that I’d be able to put together a better team than almost any general manager in the league. If not maybe all.”
In pursuit of this, in 2010 Voulgaris broke one of the cardinal rules of the sharp sports bettor: He sought publicity, conducting interviews with gambling and NBA-centric blogs. As with everything Voulgaris does, it was a calculated move. He wanted to burnish his bona fides as a quantitative basketball expert. And it worked. Despite the fact that he was giving up a yearly income that he says would dwarf all but the highest-paid executive in the NBA -- who is Jerry West of Golden State, Voulgaris is quick to point out -- he stopped gambling and signed a contract during the 2009-10 season with one of the co-owners of an NBA franchise to consult on matters of player acquisition and roster assembly. The owner, according to Voulgaris, made certain alluring pledges. “He was like, ‘You could be my GM someday; we can do this together.’ It was this whole spiel.”
Voulgaris won’t name names, nor will he say how he first met this particular owner. He has had contact with other NBA executives; he has met, for example, Daryl Morey. (Voulgaris has assured me that it wasn’t the Rockets he consulted for.) As his move to the NBA suggests, there is today much common currency between the analytical work of the sports gambler and that of an increasing number of professional teams’ front offices; one of the chief goals of both, after all, is to value players. The quant revolution in sports at large has brought these two worlds closer together than ever before, at least intellectually. Every winter at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference, members of the gambling community openly intermingle with GMs and their staffs of wonkish analysts.
“If I were the general manager of a team,” says Voulgaris, who will be attending the Sloan conference for the second time, in early March, “and I had someone building models and doing quantitative work -- if that person could not beat the Las Vegas line, his model wouldn’t be worth anything to me.” The reason? The way he sees it, the best and perhaps the only way to test one’s theories about player value is to take those theories to market. And the only market that’s liquid with money flows in the billions is the betting line, where opinions have a daily price. “Over thousands of samples of games, our model is constantly being tested on whether it’s right or wrong,” Voulgaris says. “If we’re wrong, we lose money. If we’re right, we make money.”
Voulgaris spent five months working for the NBA franchise. He says he advised his co-owner client on several trades. But he also felt excluded, held at arm’s length. “It was like if someone put a puzzle in front of you and said, ‘Solve this.’ But then, in order to solve it, you needed this special key that they weren’t going to give you.” He feels now that for all the momentum of the quant revolution in the NBA, there may be a glass ceiling for its true practitioners. “There’s a real disconnect between the basketball people, the business people and the -- for lack of a better word -- stats nerds. The stats nerds have no chance of ever becoming general managers. They’re just being used as a resource to mine.” At the end of the contract’s term, in the summer of 2010, Voulgaris decided to end his NBA flirtation and go back to being a gambler.
In truth, though, what Voulgaris says he missed most during his five-month hiatus from gambling was the gamble itself: “I was bored out of my tree.” Little wonder, given the frisson of his betting sessions. During the NBA regular season, which he splits between any number of North American and international ports of call, he watches as many games as he can, clocking more than 80 hours a week. No matter where he is -- LA or, say, Monaco, where he rents a flat -- his normal position during his game-day gambling shifts is supine on a couch, feet up on an ottoman, body nearly horizontal, a MacBook Pro resting between his lap and his knees, Ewing’s interface on the laptop’s screen, his dog (a Jack Russell named Coltrane) lying under his feet. He typically faces a wall against which rises a rack of Samsung flat-screens: a 65-inch central TV flanked on both sides by vertical ranks of three 40-inch screens, each showing a game. From here, he orchestrates his wagering: Ewing spits out a projected score and a number representing its level of confidence for each potential wager. Any projection above a certain threshold on that confidence scale Voulgaris will bet, though he sometimes overrides Ewing’s recommendations. He shows no emotion while watching the games on which he’s laid tens and perhaps hundreds of thousands, though he does very much sweat it on the inside, he says. In his words, “You’d have no chance of telling whether I was winning or losing.” During the season, he will bet, watch games, eat and sleep -- in that order of importance -- and do little else. To stay in shape, he doesn’t consume food after nightfall. This is a lifestyle not exactly conducive to relationships: He partly attributes his recent breakup with a girlfriend of five years to his odd hours during the season.
Despite it all, Voulgaris faces the same issue that all sharps face: the sustainability of his edge, no matter how sophisticated the model that produces it. When he returned to gambling for the 2010-11 season, Voulgaris says Ewing clocked an ROI of more than 6 percent. By 2011-12, it had fallen to 5.14 percent. Of course, the lockout-shortened season made for a bizarre outlier year, and Voulgaris and the Whiz had to adjust. Basically they subtracted a varying amount from the scores Ewing gave them, trying to account for the rust that kept scoring low at the start of the season, and the compressed number of games that later fatigued players -- and also kept scoring low -- toward the end of the season. But the limits of Ewing were apparent to Voulgaris. Already he sensed the inevitable. “We’re probably already at the point where my capability to make money is decreasing every year,” he says. “Every time you make a bet, you’re educating the people taking the bets. They’re learning the right way to make a line. They figure s -- out based on what you’ve already figured out.”
If, year after year, his margins are deteriorating, Voulgaris must increase the number of bets he makes in order to account for that slippage, just as he did when he moved from a subjective to a quant approach. He and the Whiz tweak Ewing in a ceaseless effort to incrementally improve its ability to spit out projections that carry high-enough confidence readings. “You’re not even improving it so much as trying to stop it from getting worse.” Like a fund manager, he must cope with the fine line between ROI, the number of bets he makes and the natural volatility caused by the random. The more he wagers, the more he courts ruin. In one unguarded moment, he tells me, “You can’t do this forever.”
When I visit him in LA over the summer, he and the Whiz are working to finish several potential alterations to Ewing, incorporating offseason player movements and adjusting the model to account for the weird data produced by the 2011-12 campaign. The predictive tool will end up responding in a very predictable way: Its margins will continue to narrow. By the middle of the 2012-13 season, Voulgaris will only say, “This has been one of the more difficult years.”
Voulgaris has only a blurry eye on his own future; Ewing’s simulations can’t help with that sort of prediction. Maybe, he muses at one point, it will be that sports gambling is someday legalized throughout the U.S., which will unleash a thundering flood of square money from casual bettors, exponentially increasing the liquidity in the market. The limits that bookmakers place on bets would increase and so would Ewing’s edge. The prospect makes Voulgaris as giddy as it’s possible for him to be. “That would literally be, like, the best thing ever,” he says. He wonders whether he could become a gambler akin to the Brit Tony Bloom, whose predictive soccer model won him enough quid to acquire the recently promoted Brighton FC. “It’s good to have goals in life, no matter how unrealistic,” Voulgaris says with a wry grin. And with enough gambling winnings, he says he would have only one goal.
“I would buy a basketball team.”Last season, the Miami Heat entered the NBA playoffs as the No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference and ranked sixth in ESPN’s NBA BPI rankings.
The Heat were coming off back-to-back NBA championships and three consecutive trips to the NBA Finals. LeBron James, Ray Allen and Dwyane Wade had all played more than 5,000 playoff minutes in their careers, and based on the weighted playoff minutes on the roster, the Heat entered the playoffs as the most experienced team in the past decade.
Miami breezed through its first three playoff series (12-3) before meeting the second-most experienced team in the NBA, the San Antonio Spurs. Although the Heat did not win the championship, they are a prime example of the value of experience in the playoffs.
Other examples of experienced teams that have had postseason success despite being seeded second or lower are the 2010-11 Dallas Mavericks, the 2006-07 Spurs and the 2005-06 Heat, all of them NBA champions. Conversely, inexperienced No. 1 seeds such as the 2013-14 Indiana Pacers, the 2010-11 Chicago Bulls and the 2008-09 Cleveland Cavaliers generally do worse than expected (based on seed) in the playoffs.
Experience matters Playoff Experience Past 10 NBA Champions Team Seed Exp. Rank<< 2013-14 Spurs 1 2 2012-13 Heat 1 1 2011-12 Heat 2 4 2010-11 Mavericks 3 3 2009-10 Lakers 1 1 2008-09 Lakers 1 1 2007-08 Celtics 1 6 2006-07 Spurs 3 1 2005-06 Heat 2 3 2004-05 Spurs 2 2 >>Weighted average of playoff minutes
ESPN’s BPI playoff projections account for experience, which has been found to be predictive of team performance in the postseason. The experience ratings are a weighted average of a team’s playoff minutes (weighted by the percentage of a team’s minutes played in the current season) and are factored into BPI’s odds for playoff series and the championship.
Although the 2014 Heat were sixth in BPI entering the playoffs, BPI projected them to have the second-best chance to win the title, behind the Spurs, because of their experience and path to the Finals.
Including the Heat and the Spurs last season, every team to make the NBA Finals in the past 10 seasons ranked in the top 10 in experience, and every NBA champion ranked in the top six.
What does this mean for the 2015 NBA playoffs?
The Spurs are by far the most experienced team heading into this season’s playoffs. They enter the playoffs third in NBA BPI, but in large part because of the experience factored into the playoff projection, they have the second-best chance to win the championship, behind the Golden State Warriors. Dallas, Cleveland and Memphis are the next-most experienced teams projected to make the playoffs, but their playoff experience is far from the level of the Spurs.
Playoff Experience Among Playoff Teams Most Experienced Least Experienced Spurs Pelicans Mavericks Bucks Cavaliers Raptors Grizzlies Celtics >>Based on weighted average of playoff minutes
The Warriors are an interesting No. 1 seed.
By most traditional measures of historical success (wins, win percentage, efficiency, etc.), they should run away with the NBA championship, but they also are the sixth-least experienced team in the playoffs.
Their projected starting lineup has played 3,112 playoff minutes, almost 6,000 fewer than Tim Duncan alone.
Despite leading the NBA in BPI by a wide margin, the Warriors' chances to win the NBA title are only seven percentage points ahead that of the Spurs, according to BPI’s projections.
Best Chance to Win NBA Championship According to NBA BPI Projections Pct Chance Experience Rank Golden State Warriors 34% 15th<< San Antonio Spurs 27% 1st Cleveland Cavaliers 14% 4th Los Angeles Clippers 10% 7th Atlanta Hawks 5% 13th >>6th-least experienced projected playoff team
Like the Warriors, the Hawks are an inexperienced No. 1 seed. The difference between the Hawks and Warriors, however, is that the Hawks rank ninth in the NBA and second in the Eastern Conference in BPI.
Accounting for experience, team strength and potential matchups, Atlanta has a 24 percent chance to make the NBA Finals, according to BPI’s projections.
The Cavaliers, on the other hand, are the most experienced projected playoff team in the East (mostly LeBron James’ experience) and get a boost in the projections from that factor.On Monday, Minnesota Timberwolves center Karl-Anthony Towns was named the 2015-16 NBA Rookie of the Year by a unanimous vote. Towns is the fifth player since the award debuted in 1952-53 to win unanimously, and the third in the past six years.
Unanimous Rookie of the Year Winners NBA History Team 2015-16 Karl-Anthony Towns Timberwolves 2012-13 Damian Lillard Trail Blazers 2010-11 Blake Griffin Clippers 1989-90 David Robinson Spurs 1983-84 Ralph Sampson Rockets *Award debuted in 1952-53 season
Towns was named the Rookie of the Month every month in the Western Conference this season, becoming the third center to be named Rookie of the Month for every month (David Robinson in 1989-90 and Ralph Sampson in 1983-84).
He is the ninth player overall to be named named Rookie of the Month every month, joining Damian Lillard (2012-13), Blake Griffin (2010-11), Chris Paul (2005-06), LeBron James (2003-04), Carmelo Anthony (2003-04) and Tim Duncan (1997-98).
Karl-Anthony Towns Rookie ranks PPG 18.3 1st FG pct 54.2 4th RPG 10.5 1st Blocks PG 1.7 2nd Dbl-dbls 51 1st PER 22.6 1st* *Min. 60 games
Towns led all rookies in points per game (18.3), rebounds per game (10.5), double-doubles (51) and Player Efficiency Rating (22.6).
He became the 26th rookie in NBA history to average 18 points and 10 rebounds per game. Only two of those players had a higher field goal percentage than Towns: Shaquille O’Neal and Tim Duncan.
Towns had 19 games with at least 25 points and 10 rebounds. The rest of the rookie class had nine such games. Kristaps Porzingis and Jahlil Okafor had the second-most with three.
Towns joins Andrew Wiggins (2014-15) as the only Timberwolves players to win Rookie of the Year. This is the first time a franchise had the Rookie of the Year in consecutive seasons since the Buffalo Braves in 1972-73 (Bob McAdoo) and 1973-74 (Ernie DiGregorio).
Towns is the first player from the University of Kentucky to win the NBA Rookie of the Year award.Phoenix Suns guard Devin Booker's career-high for points in a game at Kentucky was 19, done twice, including once against Kentucky’s Friday night opponent, UCLA.
Booker went way, way, way beyond that on Friday night. He scored 70 points in a loss to the Celtics, the most scored in a game since Kobe Bryant dropped 81 points on the Raptors in 2006.
It also made Booker ...
The youngest player to score at least 60 (or 70) points in a game (age 20).
The record-holder for most points in a game against the Celtics. The previous mark of 64 was set by NBA legend Elgin Baylor for the Lakers during the 1959-60 season.
The record-holder for most points in a game in Suns history, breaking the previous mark of 60 set by Tom Chambers against the SuperSonics 27 years ago to the day.
The sixth different player with a 70-point game. Wilt Chamberlain had six of them. The others are David Robinson, David Thompson, Baylor and Bryant. Booker and Robinson are the only two with at least five rebounds and five assists in a game.
The ninth player with at least 50 points in a game this season -- an NBA-record.
Booker was 21-of-40 from the field. In his previous four games, he combined to shoot 22-of-81 (27 percent) and totaled 68 points.
How he did it
Booker was contested on a majority of his shots of the game, finishing 14-of-28 on contested shots.He shot 9-of-11 on attempts from a teammate’s pass, including 8-of-9 off passes from Tyler Ulis and Jared Dudley.
Booker scored at least one basket against six different Celtics defenders. The only Celtics player who was able to neutralize him? Al Horford, who limited Booker to 0-of-4 shooting as his primary defender.
Booker was able to get open shots before the Celtics half-court defensive setup. He scored a season-high 24 points in transition, 18 more than his season average (5.6).
Elias says:
The Elias Sports Bureau reports that Booker is the first player in NBA history to score 70 in a game without any prior games of at least 40 points. The last player to increase his career-high in points by at least 31 points (as Booker did) in a game that was not his debut was Larry Kenon, who scored 41 points in his second career game on October 27, 1976, for the Spurs against the Suns after scoring 10 points in his debut.The Los Angeles Lakers invade Golden 1 Center on Wednesday night for a nationally televised game against the host Sacramento Kings. Tipoff is scheduled for 10:30 p.m. ET on ESPN/WatchESPN.
These two franchises entered the NBA (then called the Basketball Association of America) in 1948, when they represented Minneapolis and Rochester. The Lakers and Kings have played 423 regular-season games against each other since then and the Lakers have won nearly 64 percent of those meetings (270 to 153).
The 117-win disparity in this rivalry is the largest in NBA history when it comes to one team versus another. The second-widest difference is 108 wins in the Boston Celtics-New York Knicks rivalry (288 to 180). However, the Kings have won nine of the last 11 meetings in this series.
Los Angeles, which beat the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday night, has not won two games played on consecutive days since Nov. 18-19, 2014 (road games at Atlanta and Houston). Since then, the Lakers have played 50 pairs of back-to-back games, splitting 20 of those sets and losing 30.
Point guard rivalry
Wednesday night marks the first time that Lakers point guard Lonzo Ball will be matched up with fellow rookie point guard De’Aaron Fox of the Kings since their college days. The last time these two met was in the Sweet 16 of last season's NCAA tournament. Fox and Kentucky outplayed Ball and UCLA in that game.
ESPN Stats & Info
Fox has started the last three games for Sacramento and is averaging 10.7 points per game on 50 percent shooting in those contests.
Although Fox got the better of Ball back in March, the point guards are having similar rookie seasons in the NBA. They currently rank second and third among rookies, respectively, in assists per game while both struggling to find their shots.
ESPN Stats & Info
Kuz Control
While Ball dominates the headlines, another Lakers rookie is doing it on the court. Kyle Kuzma leads Los Angeles in scoring at 16.8 points per game, including 23.2 points in his last four outings. The last rookie to lead the Lakers in scoring for a season was Elgin Baylor in 1958-59 (24.9). Kuzma’s 16.8 points per game is the second-best for all rookies this season behind the Philadelphia 76ers' Ben Simmons (18.7).
ESPN Stats & Info
Kuzma scored a season-high 30 points last Friday against the Phoenix Suns, the most by a rookie this season. The two highest-scoring games by a rookie this season have come against the Suns (Ball scored 29 on Oct. 20).
Kuzma has seven 20-point games, the most by a rookie this season. Also, his five double-doubles are second among rookies (Simmons, 11).
The importance of defense
The Lakers were the league's worst team in 2016-17 when it came to defensive efficiency, but Los Angeles has improved to fourth so far this season. The key has been defending the 3-point line, as the Lakers are tied with the 76ers for the best 3-point field-goal percentage defense this season.
ESPN Stats & Info
How is Los Angeles holding down opponents' field-goal percentages? The Lakers are contesting shots and doing it often. Los Angeles leads the NBA by contesting 71.3 shots per game, which is seven more per game than any other team.
The Kings represent the other end of the defensive spectrum as they currently own the league's the second-worst defense by allowing 109.1 points per 100 possessions. The Cleveland Cavaliers are the only team worse on that end of the floor. What's more, the Kings' average loss this season has come by 17.8 points per game. The last team to have an average losing margin that large for a season was the 1992-93 Dallas Mavericks, who lost 71 games by an average of 18.4 points.
Another defensive issue for Sacramento has simply been effort and hustle. The Kings rank in the bottom six in the NBA in deflections, charges drawn and contested shots per game.
Controlling the glass
The Kings are averaging 7.8 fewer rebounds per game than they have allowed this season, the poorest rebound differential in the NBA. Sacramento is 2-12 in games in which it has been outrebounded by its opponent and 2-1 in games in which it produced a rebound advantage.
Meanwhile, the Lakers' starting guards have combined for an average of 12.6 rebounds per game this season, the highest average for any team’s starting backcourt. Ball pulled down 13 boards on Tuesday versus the Bulls after he grabbed 16 of them during a triple-double on Sunday against the Denver Nuggets.
Ball’s total of 29 rebounds over a two-game span is the highest for any starting guard in the NBA this season and the highest for a Los Angeles starting guard since Kobe Bryant in November 2002.
Not very regal
Sacramento has scored fewer than 100 points in each of its last six games, the longest such streak by an NBA team this season and the longest for the Kings since they failed to reach triple-digits in any game during a seven-game stretch in the 2014–15 season.
The lack of offensive success can be attributed in part to poor play from some of the team's veterans. Point guard George Hill averaged a career-high 16.9 points per game in 2016-17 for the Utah Jazz, but this year he's averaging his fewest points per game in seven seasons.
ESPN Stats & Info
Veteran forward Zach Randolph leads Sacramento with 12.3 points per game, the lowest average by a team’s leading scorer this season. No team’s leading scorer has ever averaged fewer than 13 points per game for a season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.“The NFL [labor debate] is completely different than the NBA debate because of the strength of their business.”
As his fellow panelists nodded their heads, Tom Penn, an NBA analyst for ESPN and the former assistant general manager of the Portland Trailblazers, went on to explain that, while nearly every NFL franchise is profitable, the vast majority of NBA teams -- all except six or seven -- lose money.
This stark fact dominated the conversation at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference’s panel on sports and labor relations Friday morning. Common debates such as whether or not players’ contracts should be guaranteed or what percentage of revenue they should receive were overshadowed by the question how does the entire NBA, and not just an elite group of teams, return to profitability?
TrueHoop at MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference
Although he never said so explicitly, Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College, appeared skeptical that they could, pointing out that both television revenue and ticket prices have begun to flatten out, even in the NFL.
“How do you expand over time,” Zimbalist asked, “other than having growing popularity?”
Zimbalist said one of the few ways the league could increase revenue in the short term was by contracting. However, Zimbalist was strongly opposed to contraction, which he called “anti-consumer.” But, he said, it’s common for monopolies in sectors other than professional sports to reduce output relative to demand in order to increase prices.
Former Houston Rockets President George Postolos said Zimbalist was approaching contraction in the wrong way. “I don’t think people are talking about contraction in New Orleans is because they want to raise prices in L.A.,” he said.
During a question-and-answer session, I asked the panelists, who also included former NBA Deputy Commissioner Russ Granik and Sports Illustrated legal analyst Mike McCann and was moderated by ESPN’s Jackie MacMullan, if revenue sharing could actually lead to greater revenue.
Earlier Granik said that, if the league is losing money overall, revenue sharing amounts to little more than spreading out those losses around the league.
I suggested that revenue sharing might increase parity and competitiveness in the league, generating great interest in smaller markets and then, hopefully, more revenue.
Postolos agreed with my suggestion, pointing out that the NBA, which has a minor degree of revenue sharing when compared with the other major sports leagues, is also one of the least competitive (i.e. the same teams tend to make the playoffs and win championships year after year). He noted that Major League Baseball began sharing more revenue among the franchises a decade ago. Since then traditional powerhouses such as the New York Yankees, although still very successful, have not dominated the sport as easily.
(The Yankees won four World Series between 1996 and 2000, but have won only one since.)
Zimbalist, who earlier said he supported a form of revenue sharing that encouraged owners to remain “entrepreneurial,” agreed that revenue sharing could lead to greater profitability, but it would be difficult to calculate the degree to which it would.
Postolos pointed out that issues like revenue sharing, which is hotly debated among the owners, can handicap the owners’ bargaining ability. Focusing on the disagreements they have with one another can distract from the disagreements they have with the players. Although, as Zimbalist pointed out, their disagreements with the players can also be what enables them to put issues like revenue sharing temporarily aside.
“When the owners can’t agree on things like revenue sharing, they can agree they want the players to have less,” he said.
The conversation focused so directly on the question of the profitability of franchises partly because the players didn’t have a true representative on the panel. Former league-wide and franchise executives, although incredibly well versed in the issues at hand, aren’t necessarily the best at honestly addressing what is troubling the players. Although the overall profitability of the league is certainly something the players union is concerned with, there are most likely other issues a players representative might have raised.
Then again, I’m not sure what I expected: Go to a panel on labor relations at a business school, and you’re almost certain to get a discussion that slants in a pro-business direction. That’s not to say the panelists were hostile towards the players union or dismissive of their concerns. They just weren’t especially attentive to them either.Back when the NBA video game world was expanding into giving you an actual NBA experience, the limitations of games reached beyond whatever the technology allowed.
While NBA Live 95 was revolutionizing the overall expansion of NBA video games with a 30-degree angle, instant replay and the ability to trade players, it was being hampered with the exclusion of the league’s biggest star. Michael Jordan, among others, would not allow his likeness to be sold with these games. EA Sports cleverly went around these legal issues by inserting “Player 23” onto the Bulls, and wouldn’t you know it that he seemed to have the exact same look and abilities of a certain global icon.
It was something that you could work with and pretend he was actually in the game. But for many young teenagers such as myself, it was ultimately a disappointment when you fired up the Sega Genesis, went to the rosters after first inserting each yearly installment and seeing Player 23 defending you from fully embracing the pixilated NBA experience.
Last year, NBA 2K11 revolutionized the basketball gaming world for seemingly the 11th straight year. They worked out a deal with Jordan and put him on the cover of the game. Not only was he on the cover, he was in the game as his old self. You could play through 10 different moments of his career and each version of MJ was a bit different from the other, in order to simulate the feeling of playing with him in 1986 as opposed to using the 1998 version.
2K Sports gave us what all of the people playing basketball games in the 90s never got to do. We were able to be Jordan.
This year, they’ve announced that Larry Bird and Magic Johnson will be on the covers as well. And even though they’re still being coy with the new features of this year’s installment of the best basketball gaming franchise of all time, a lot of people are hoping they give you the same experience with Magic and Bird that they did in last year’s game and Jordan.
If we’re given the option to play through 10 moments of Magic and Bird’s careers, here are the moments I’m hoping we get to run through.
For Magic’s accomplishments:
- Game 6 of the 1980 NBA Finals. Running out Magic as center and having him play all over the court throughout his first title-clinching game of his career.
- Game 6 of the 1982 NBA Finals. Record a triple double while playing against the Philadelphia 76ers to win the championship.
- Game 3 of the 1984 NBA Finals. Record at least 21 assists against the Celtics and win the game.
- Game 6 of the 1985 NBA Finals. Close out the Boston Celtics on their home floor to win the NBA title.
- Game 4 of the 1987 NBA Finals. This is the game with the famous hook shot by Magic to win the game and control the series against the Celtics.
- Game 6 of the 1987 NBA Finals. Close out the Boston Celtics for the second time by getting at least 16 points and 19 assists.
- Game 7 of the 1988 Western Conference Finals. Record at least 24 points, 9 rebounds and 11 assists while securing the win against the Mavericks.
- Game 7 of the 1988 NBA Finals. Close out the Pistons for the repeat by getting at least 19 points and 14 assists.
- 1992 All-Star Game. Get to play in his sendoff game after being allowed to play following his sudden retirement.
For Bird’s accomplishments:
- Game 7 of the 1981 Eastern Conference Finals. After being down 3-1 in the series, the Celtics won two straight games to force Game 7. Close out the Sixers in Game 7 to move onto the Finals.
- Game 6 of the 1981 NBA Finals. Score 26 points and grab 13 rebounds with Bird to close out the Rockets and win his first NBA title.
- Game 7 against the Knicks in the 1984 playoffs. Record 43 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists while closing out Bernard King and the Knicks.
- Game 5 of the 1984 NBA Finals. Score 34 points and grab 17 rebounds to beat the Los Angeles Lakers and take a 3-2 lead in the Finals.
- 1985 regular season game against the Hawks. Score 60 points while watching for the Hawks’ bench players to celebrate in astonishment.
- 1986 regular season game against the Blazers. Score 47 points, record 14 rebounds and dish out 11 assists while they have Bird shooting primarily with his left hand.
- Game 6 of the 1986 NBA Finals. Put up 29 points, 11 rebounds and 12 assists to knock off the Houston Rockets.
- Game 7 against the Hawks in the 1988 playoffs. Score at least 34 points to beat the hot shooting Dominique Wilkins.
- Game 5 against the Pacers in the 1991 playoffs. With a hobbled Bird, score 32 points to outduel Chuck Person and the Pacers.
If you’ll notice, I left a spot open for each player by only providing nine games. Hopefully there is a way to include the gold medal game of the Dream Team’s march through the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona. They will probably have the rights to most of, if not, all of the players from that team.
That would be a fun way of expanding on the new legacy 2K Sports gave us last year by turning Player 23 into what every basketball game aficionado had been craving for the better part of two decades.TrueHoop reader David created a chart of the two sides' collective bargaining offers to date.
The other day, on Bill Simmons' podcast, NBA Commissioner David Stern wondered why the players had scoffed at the owners' offer to cut player salaries just eight percent -- a smaller pay cut, he pointed out, than players in the very profitable NFL had taken.
This eight percent story, which has since been repeated by an NBA spokesman, is somewhere between splitting hairs and a ruse. The chart above, made by TrueHoop reader David, helps to show that: Stern is talking about the first year of the league's "flex cap" offer, shown in turquoise. But the attractive first year of that offer comes is conditional on nine more years of fairly flat player income, even as league revenues are projected to climb with new national TV deals and an increasingly global audience. In other words, owners have offered a short period of salaries that are within shouting distance of the current deal, followed by many more years of below-market salaries.
By nobody's projection has the league offered a deal that is an eight percent pay cut over the life of the deal.
This is the kind of thing that you can see with your own eyes, thanks to this chart submitted by TrueHoop reader David. Based on educated guesses of the league's current revenues, assuming four percent annual growth over the next decade, and taking the NBA's word about how much money they're currently losing, he created the chart above based on media reports of the various offers. He cautions it is only as precise as the information that has been reported. Here's what matters:
The blue line
That's where the action is. The union has long built a case, and Malcolm Gladwell has their backs, that profit and loss is not the final analysis -- both because that analysis includes some costs related to team purchases, and because many of the benefits of team ownership are non-economic. But for the purposes of these talks, and this chart, I think we can safely assume that the NBA owners are not going to agree to a deal that projects league-wide losses. They want a deal that projects a league in the money, and this is that line.
The best the union could do, I suspect, is to negotiate a deal that is precisely on that line -- or a line like it, created with the union's better financial insight -- and even that may be too hopeful. Owners want profits. And that's not weird. It's the way of business. If there aren't profits for owners, in pretty much any business, well, the hard reality is that the owner can and maybe should simply shut the doors and walk away. As employees, you want all the money you can get, but clearly not so much that you topple the entire enterprise.
The pink line
Make a note of this: The existing deal is the one that does the very best for players. Which matters when you look at ...
The red line
David Stern has said the union does not want to negotiate, and he's talking about lately. But worth noting is that the players opened talks with a giveback, and have not made one significant ask of their own. This is not a give and take. This is a give. The only question has been gift size. Not the worst people to negotiate with.
The yellow line
That was a while ago now, but remember it came in contrast to the status quo, or the pink line. So the league opened negotiations saying, basically, we'll keep it just like it is, only we'll take an incredibly huge chunk of your money every single year.
The turquoise line
Two important things have happened to date: The players have opened with a giveback, and the owners have made an offer that is, at least temporarily, right up there in "let's make a deal" territory by that all-important blue line. Even though we have not yet reached the zero hour of negotiations, when the real offers will come out, we have already had some signs that the mood is to negotiate.
A final story of this chart: It's fairly clear what a compromise will look like, and both sides likely know it. It will be, almost certainly, somewhere near that blue line, which happens to be just about in the middle of all the various offers. It's noteworthy that neither side has yet made an offer all that close, which makes me think the good offers are yet to come.China Photos/Getty Images
Yao Ming's retirement caused the demise of the NBA in China. Or not.
Jeremy Lin's agent says he hasn't slept in days, fielding calls with business opportunities. Knicks games are being added to broadcasts all across Asia.
In the strangest of ways, the NBA has found, in a young Taiwanese-American, a near-perfect poster child for the league in the NBA's biggest market. It's a shot in a critical arm of the league's global brand.
What's interesting is that the league says that despite Yao Ming's retirement and recent reports of blown opportunities, the league is doing very well in China, thank you very much, despite one prominent apparent misstep.
A few years ago, all kinds of heavy hitters lined up all kinds of money to create a new business entity called NBA China. What precisely it would do was never all that clear, publicly. But when NBA China was created, there was a lot of excitement about more reforms and openness in the Chinese sporting world, especially surrounding the 2008 Olympics.
"The model that we're working on now is the placement of all of our assets in China in an enterprise with all NBA rights," David Stern said at a Reuters Summit in 2006. Those would include rights to sponsorship and merchandise revenue and TV deals and, he said, "the ability to operate a league such as NBA of China. It's something that will be articulated by the close of the Beijing Olympics."
If the NBA has a scheme for global sports domination, this was a major pillar.
It never happened, of course. There is no NBA league in China.
Why not?
That's a big question for at least two reasons. The first is that it's a mystery, and everybody likes mysteries.
The second is that off the record, various insiders have suggested that the NBA's recent financial woes -- the very woes that fueled the lockout and inspired a wholly different collective bargaining agreement -- had more than a little to do with missed bets in China, which Stern's comments have at times appeared to support.
February 2010 was one of the first times Stern explained why NBA players would need to accept a smaller share of revenues. After talking about flat ticket prices, he volunteered another reason: the league's spending overseas. At that time, the only bold new play was China. "Internationally, those initial dollars are very costly to come by," he explained. "We are out there; when you open an office and you ship people there and you do the investment spending; we have always investment spent and we are continuing to do that. But it's beginning to … this economic environment, we are feeling it a little bit more. We have had cutbacks at the league, we have had cutbacks at the teams and reductions of expenses and the like."
As Jim Yardley explained recently in The New York Times magazine, the NBA's very talk of a league in China helped to doom a league in China:
Stern’s comments at the Reuters Summit, delivered almost as an aside, were quickly picked up in the Chinese media and caught the attention of the man who then ran the C.B.A., Li Yuanwei. A former college professor, Li was known as a reformer who admired the N.B.A.’s business model. I spoke with Li during my season following the Shanxi Brave Dragons, and he recalled being stunned when he learned about Stern’s plans for an N.B.A. league. "He had never said this before to us," Li said. "If he had said he wanted to cooperate with the C.B.A., then that would have been understandable. But he didn’t say a word, which meant he knew nothing about China." ... In an unpublicized meeting, Tim Chen, then chief executive of N.B.A. China, presented a proposal to Li Yuanwei, in which both sides would equally control a new eight-team league under the N.B.A. brand. C.B.A. owners would have the first right to buy a team for $50 million. Li Yuanwei, already distracted by preparations for the Olympics, flatly rejected the plan and postponed any further discussions until after the Games. Instead, when Stern returned to Beijing for an exhibition game, a month and a half after the Olympics, he discussed the N.B.A.’s plans to help develop and manage a network of new arenas across China. "If we do get to the point where we have that cooperative league," he said, "we’ll have the buildings already." The N.B.A., however, has largely suspended those grand plans for the foreseeable future, while also stalling plans to build N.B.A. retail stores throughout the country. David Shoemaker, who became N.B.A. China’s chief executive in June, said the N.B.A.’s agenda now involves several collaborations with the Chinese league, including exchanges in which Chinese coaches and referees receive training in the United States, as well as a basketball academy in southern China to develop elite players. As for a league? Shoemaker called it a distant possibility.
Sounds like failure, doesn't it?
"They haven't failed at all."
Before he founded The Raine Group, while working for Goldman Sachs, Joseph Ravitch advised the NBA on setting up its China business. He has been watching closely ever since and says the NBA executives "haven't failed at all. They've done exactly what they said they were going to do."
Goldman Sachs valued the deal at $2.4 billion at the time, a number that Ravitch says can be justified even without a league.
"The key to that deal is that NBA China owns all of the rights, past, present and future, to all NBA trademarks, all NBA content, all the video past, present and future, for greater China," he explained. In other words, the counting starts with every dollar the league will ever earn from broadcasting to one of the biggest NBA TV markets in the world. (It is said that more people in China play basketball than live in the entire United States.)
"What people bought when they invested in it was effectively the intellectual property around the NBA past, present and future. Which is, one can argue, incalculable in value,” Ravitch said. "David Stern will tell you he sold it way too cheap because you can't possibly calculate the value of that. The NBA jumping man logo is on a billion milk cartons in China. It's on tissue boxes. It's on a mobile phone. People license it for consumer products because it seems such a cool, healthy brand. People know what the NBA is from the jumping man logo.”
"In basketball, you miss some shots," David Shoemaker, the current head of NBA China, said in response to Yardley's article, which had a headline online about the league missing shots in China. "[Michael] Jordan famously talked about how many shots he missed on his way to all those championships. I feel like we're making a lot of shots. We're hitting some 3s, there are some dunks along the way."
Shoemaker came to NBA China after running the World Tennis Association from Beijing.
"I was sitting on the sidelines at the WTA, looking up at the NBA, and NBA China in particular, as the gold standard, the model we aspired to." he recalled. "It was a thriving and growing business -- as far as we were concerned -- set the standard of sport in China and was clearly the No. 1 sports marketing property in all of China measured by every metric. The valuation then and now comes as no surprise to me. It's based on a fully diversified business that starts at its core as a sponsorship business, which has an A-list who's who of sponsors, both multinational and Chinese companies. You've got the likes of Coke and adidas, Nike, Visa as multinationals and then the likes of Lenovo, Dungfeng and Peak.
"Then you turn to the digital business, where the NBA is routinely breaking records with two portals, Sina.com and QQ.com. It makes a lot of money. Very valuable business. It has potential to make many multiples more. Our partner on League Pass is the Shanghai Media Group. It's only a couple of years old. But it's something we believe has an extraordinarily bright future, given the projections of the Chinese middle class and disposable income tied to the popularity of NBA basketball in China. We've got a merchandise business, where NBA merchandise is available at over 25,000 points of sale. Our on-court apparel is in over 2,200 adidas stores in China. We also have our own NBAstore.com here in China. We believe that's an integral part of our strategy here in China."
Underscoring all of that is that reality that the NBA is more popular than ever. The retirement of Yao Ming was said to predict the league's demise, but even before the explosion of the Knicks' Jeremy Lin -- a huge story in China -- TV ratings have been up 39 percent compared to last season. The two or three preseason games NBA teams play in China every year are, Shoemaker says, "probably the most popular recurring live sporting event in China ... always playing to sold-out houses, always to very well-sponsored events, with extremely good television ratings, digital coverage and the like."
To anyone who doubts the NBA's popularity in China, Ravitch suggests attending: "Go for the China games in October. It's a phenomenon."
Ravitch says the NBA's prominence in China underscores a key global branding success: Elite basketball, all over the globe, is synonymous with the NBA. That's a feat no other global league has accomplished. "It's the only league," he pointed out, "where it’s made its league brand and its players synonymous with the sport globally. In Italy, where basketball is a successful sport, the NBA games outrate the Italian basketball games on television. The best thing they've done is create a global brand of basketball synonymous with the NBA. There's no global brand associated with soccer. You have national teams, you have leagues, you have FIFA ... there are very few sports that are truly global … the NBA is truly unique.
"When the Chinese 20-year-olds are looking for heroes or are wanting to watch games or wanting to watch the best basketball players, they watch NBA games, they buy NBA merchandise and they idolize the NBA players. There's lots of statistics about the number of uniques on NBA.com.cn far exceeding the number of uniques on NBA.com. All the videos, social media. The notion the NBA hasn't succeeded because we don't have a league is crazy."
Where's that league?
There seems to be little argument that the NBA runs a strong business in China. The NBA is essentially the most popular sport in the biggest and richest basketball market in the world.
But a local NBA league in China has not gotten anywhere, with estimates it is a decade or two away at best.
So what was all that talk about? Stern's talk at the Reuters Summit, for example, or Tim Chen's meeting with Li Yuanwei?
The party line is that a league was never a big deal. "A league," said Ravitch, who was in the room when NBA China's strategy was born, "was a bonus. But it was never in the plan."
Shoemaker, who took over NBA China last year, echoed that sentiment: "I don't think there's ever really been a change in the plan. Everyone has understood that the most important thing to do is to collaborate in growing the game of basketball. That's a strategy that I've been fully focused on, but it's not like I invented it. That was here well before me and all the foundation for that sort of stuff was laid by my predecessors. Could there come a day where we collaborate with the Chinese Basketball Association on a league here in China? Surely yes. But that's not our focus. And it'll take a long time to get to that point. We're going to do it right. And we're going to build the game of basketball at the most fundamental level, and if those pieces fall into place, then so be it. That's how it'll work."
Yet Stern, Chen and others directly involved certainly once anticipated real progress around the time of the Beijing Olympics. Whether it was a "bonus" or a "strategy," those involved once spoke of it optimistically but have shifted to using the vaguest possible terms and schedule. Why?
A theory: The NBA's desire for a Chinese league was very real -- and was thwarted by the machinations of Chinese politics. When NBA China was founded, known reformer Li was in the key decision-making position. After the Beijing Olympics, Li was replaced by the more conservative Xin Lancheng. That was part of a bigger trend: Before the Olympics there had been confident talk about opening the Chinese sports system to reforms and outsiders, but in reality very little of that has happened.
Whatever the barriers are to a league, they certainly seem to be sensitive. I asked Shoemaker what the challenges were, and he was silent for nearly 10 full seconds before saying, "You've got me there, in a sense," and then talking in the vaguest terms about settling on the right plan.
My interpretation: The obstacles are politicians. And calling them out makes them bigger obstacles. So somebody in Shoemaker's position must say nothing even approaching inflammatory, keeping expectations quiet and learning from Stern's evident error with Li before the Olympics.
Ravitch said the idea that Stern's comments derailed the process has been "overstated," but nevertheless the calculus seems to be that even admitting NBA China still really wants a league would be an error of rhetoric that could make political problems. So those at the NBA and NBA China speak in "maybe one day" terms and wait for political stars to align.
In the meantime, the wins are in selling NBA-branded TV broadcasts, milk cartons, cell phones, online experiences and the like -- and in incrementally raising the level of the game so that if and when there is an NBA league in China, it will pass muster with fans. To that end, NBA China now touts more modest, politically careful accomplishments such as referee and coaching exchanges, rehabbing arenas in China's major cities and collaborating in creating the CBA Donnguan Basketball School for elite players.
"The Chinese are extremely sensitive right now about protecting their own cultural institutions, as they should be," Ravitch said. "The NBA’s strategy is to work with the CBA and make it a stronger league, train coaches, make the CBA better because the more successful basketball is in China the better for the NBA in the long term."
And in the long term, perhaps the NBA will find a way to present live, in-the-flesh basketball to a massive, basketball-loving, brand-conscious and increasingly wealthy domestic Chinese market. Until then, the other parts of the business are doing well enough to declare victory.China Photos/Getty Images
Yao Ming's retirement caused the demise of the NBA in China. Or not.
Jeremy Lin's agent says he hasn't slept in days, fielding calls with business opportunities. Knicks games are being added to broadcasts all across Asia.
In the strangest of ways, the NBA has found, in a young Taiwanese-American, a near-perfect poster child for the league in the NBA's biggest market. It's a shot in a critical arm of the league's global brand.
What's interesting is that the league says that despite Yao Ming's retirement and recent reports of blown opportunities, the league is doing very well in China, thank you very much, despite one prominent apparent misstep.
A few years ago, all kinds of heavy hitters lined up all kinds of money to create a new business entity called NBA China. What precisely it would do was never all that clear, publicly. But when NBA China was created, there was a lot of excitement about more reforms and openness in the Chinese sporting world, especially surrounding the 2008 Olympics.
"The model that we're working on now is the placement of all of our assets in China in an enterprise with all NBA rights," David Stern said at a Reuters Summit in 2006. Those would include rights to sponsorship and merchandise revenue and TV deals and, he said, "the ability to operate a league such as NBA of China. It's something that will be articulated by the close of the Beijing Olympics."
If the NBA has a scheme for global sports domination, this was a major pillar.
It never happened, of course. There is no NBA league in China.
Why not?
That's a big question for at least two reasons. The first is that it's a mystery, and everybody likes mysteries.
The second is that off the record, various insiders have suggested that the NBA's recent financial woes -- the very woes that fueled the lockout and inspired a wholly different collective bargaining agreement -- had more than a little to do with missed bets in China, which Stern's comments have at times appeared to support.
February 2010 was one of the first times Stern explained why NBA players would need to accept a smaller share of revenues. After talking about flat ticket prices, he volunteered another reason: the league's spending overseas. At that time, the only bold new play was China. "Internationally, those initial dollars are very costly to come by," he explained. "We are out there; when you open an office and you ship people there and you do the investment spending; we have always investment spent and we are continuing to do that. But it's beginning to … this economic environment, we are feeling it a little bit more. We have had cutbacks at the league, we have had cutbacks at the teams and reductions of expenses and the like."
As Jim Yardley explained recently in The New York Times magazine, the NBA's very talk of a league in China helped to doom a league in China:
Stern’s comments at the Reuters Summit, delivered almost as an aside, were quickly picked up in the Chinese media and caught the attention of the man who then ran the C.B.A., Li Yuanwei. A former college professor, Li was known as a reformer who admired the N.B.A.’s business model. I spoke with Li during my season following the Shanxi Brave Dragons, and he recalled being stunned when he learned about Stern’s plans for an N.B.A. league. "He had never said this before to us," Li said. "If he had said he wanted to cooperate with the C.B.A., then that would have been understandable. But he didn’t say a word, which meant he knew nothing about China." ... In an unpublicized meeting, Tim Chen, then chief executive of N.B.A. China, presented a proposal to Li Yuanwei, in which both sides would equally control a new eight-team league under the N.B.A. brand. C.B.A. owners would have the first right to buy a team for $50 million. Li Yuanwei, already distracted by preparations for the Olympics, flatly rejected the plan and postponed any further discussions until after the Games. Instead, when Stern returned to Beijing for an exhibition game, a month and a half after the Olympics, he discussed the N.B.A.’s plans to help develop and manage a network of new arenas across China. "If we do get to the point where we have that cooperative league," he said, "we’ll have the buildings already." The N.B.A., however, has largely suspended those grand plans for the foreseeable future, while also stalling plans to build N.B.A. retail stores throughout the country. David Shoemaker, who became N.B.A. China’s chief executive in June, said the N.B.A.’s agenda now involves several collaborations with the Chinese league, including exchanges in which Chinese coaches and referees receive training in the United States, as well as a basketball academy in southern China to develop elite players. As for a league? Shoemaker called it a distant possibility.
Sounds like failure, doesn't it?
"They haven't failed at all."
Before he founded The Raine Group, while working for Goldman Sachs, Joseph Ravitch advised the NBA on setting up its China business. He has been watching closely ever since and says the NBA executives "haven't failed at all. They've done exactly what they said they were going to do."
Goldman Sachs valued the deal at $2.4 billion at the time, a number that Ravitch says can be justified even without a league.
"The key to that deal is that NBA China owns all of the rights, past, present and future, to all NBA trademarks, all NBA content, all the video past, present and future, for greater China," he explained. In other words, the counting starts with every dollar the league will ever earn from broadcasting to one of the biggest NBA TV markets in the world. (It is said that more people in China play basketball than live in the entire United States.)
"What people bought when they invested in it was effectively the intellectual property around the NBA past, present and future. Which is, one can argue, incalculable in value,” Ravitch said. "David Stern will tell you he sold it way too cheap because you can't possibly calculate the value of that. The NBA jumping man logo is on a billion milk cartons in China. It's on tissue boxes. It's on a mobile phone. People license it for consumer products because it seems such a cool, healthy brand. People know what the NBA is from the jumping man logo.”
"In basketball, you miss some shots," David Shoemaker, the current head of NBA China, said in response to Yardley's article, which had a headline online about the league missing shots in China. "[Michael] Jordan famously talked about how many shots he missed on his way to all those championships. I feel like we're making a lot of shots. We're hitting some 3s, there are some dunks along the way."
Shoemaker came to NBA China after running the World Tennis Association from Beijing.
"I was sitting on the sidelines at the WTA, looking up at the NBA, and NBA China in particular, as the gold standard, the model we aspired to." he recalled. "It was a thriving and growing business -- as far as we were concerned -- set the standard of sport in China and was clearly the No. 1 sports marketing property in all of China measured by every metric. The valuation then and now comes as no surprise to me. It's based on a fully diversified business that starts at its core as a sponsorship business, which has an A-list who's who of sponsors, both multinational and Chinese companies. You've got the likes of Coke and adidas, Nike, Visa as multinationals and then the likes of Lenovo, Dungfeng and Peak.
"Then you turn to the digital business, where the NBA is routinely breaking records with two portals, Sina.com and QQ.com. It makes a lot of money. Very valuable business. It has potential to make many multiples more. Our partner on League Pass is the Shanghai Media Group. It's only a couple of years old. But it's something we believe has an extraordinarily bright future, given the projections of the Chinese middle class and disposable income tied to the popularity of NBA basketball in China. We've got a merchandise business, where NBA merchandise is available at over 25,000 points of sale. Our on-court apparel is in over 2,200 adidas stores in China. We also have our own NBAstore.com here in China. We believe that's an integral part of our strategy here in China."
Underscoring all of that is that reality that the NBA is more popular than ever. The retirement of Yao Ming was said to predict the league's demise, but even before the explosion of the Knicks' Jeremy Lin -- a huge story in China -- TV ratings have been up 39 percent compared to last season. The two or three preseason games NBA teams play in China every year are, Shoemaker says, "probably the most popular recurring live sporting event in China ... always playing to sold-out houses, always to very well-sponsored events, with extremely good television ratings, digital coverage and the like."
To anyone who doubts the NBA's popularity in China, Ravitch suggests attending: "Go for the China games in October. It's a phenomenon."
Ravitch says the NBA's prominence in China underscores a key global branding success: Elite basketball, all over the globe, is synonymous with the NBA. That's a feat no other global league has accomplished. "It's the only league," he pointed out, "where it’s made its league brand and its players synonymous with the sport globally. In Italy, where basketball is a successful sport, the NBA games outrate the Italian basketball games on television. The best thing they've done is create a global brand of basketball synonymous with the NBA. There's no global brand associated with soccer. You have national teams, you have leagues, you have FIFA ... there are very few sports that are truly global … the NBA is truly unique.
"When the Chinese 20-year-olds are looking for heroes or are wanting to watch games or wanting to watch the best basketball players, they watch NBA games, they buy NBA merchandise and they idolize the NBA players. There's lots of statistics about the number of uniques on NBA.com.cn far exceeding the number of uniques on NBA.com. All the videos, social media. The notion the NBA hasn't succeeded because we don't have a league is crazy."
Where's that league?
There seems to be little argument that the NBA runs a strong business in China. The NBA is essentially the most popular sport in the biggest and richest basketball market in the world.
But a local NBA league in China has not gotten anywhere, with estimates it is a decade or two away at best.
So what was all that talk about? Stern's talk at the Reuters Summit, for example, or Tim Chen's meeting with Li Yuanwei?
The party line is that a league was never a big deal. "A league," said Ravitch, who was in the room when NBA China's strategy was born, "was a bonus. But it was never in the plan."
Shoemaker, who took over NBA China last year, echoed that sentiment: "I don't think there's ever really been a change in the plan. Everyone has understood that the most important thing to do is to collaborate in growing the game of basketball. That's a strategy that I've been fully focused on, but it's not like I invented it. That was here well before me and all the foundation for that sort of stuff was laid by my predecessors. Could there come a day where we collaborate with the Chinese Basketball Association on a league here in China? Surely yes. But that's not our focus. And it'll take a long time to get to that point. We're going to do it right. And we're going to build the game of basketball at the most fundamental level, and if those pieces fall into place, then so be it. That's how it'll work."
Yet Stern, Chen and others directly involved certainly once anticipated real progress around the time of the Beijing Olympics. Whether it was a "bonus" or a "strategy," those involved once spoke of it optimistically but have shifted to using the vaguest possible terms and schedule. Why?
A theory: The NBA's desire for a Chinese league was very real -- and was thwarted by the machinations of Chinese politics. When NBA China was founded, known reformer Li was in the key decision-making position. After the Beijing Olympics, Li was replaced by the more conservative Xin Lancheng. That was part of a bigger trend: Before the Olympics there had been confident talk about opening the Chinese sports system to reforms and outsiders, but in reality very little of that has happened.
Whatever the barriers are to a league, they certainly seem to be sensitive. I asked Shoemaker what the challenges were, and he was silent for nearly 10 full seconds before saying, "You've got me there, in a sense," and then talking in the vaguest terms about settling on the right plan.
My interpretation: The obstacles are politicians. And calling them out makes them bigger obstacles. So somebody in Shoemaker's position must say nothing even approaching inflammatory, keeping expectations quiet and learning from Stern's evident error with Li before the Olympics.
Ravitch said the idea that Stern's comments derailed the process has been "overstated," but nevertheless the calculus seems to be that even admitting NBA China still really wants a league would be an error of rhetoric that could make political problems. So those at the NBA and NBA China speak in "maybe one day" terms and wait for political stars to align.
In the meantime, the wins are in selling NBA-branded TV broadcasts, milk cartons, cell phones, online experiences and the like -- and in incrementally raising the level of the game so that if and when there is an NBA league in China, it will pass muster with fans. To that end, NBA China now touts more modest, politically careful accomplishments such as referee and coaching exchanges, rehabbing arenas in China's major cities and collaborating in creating the CBA Donnguan Basketball School for elite players.
"The Chinese are extremely sensitive right now about protecting their own cultural institutions, as they should be," Ravitch said. "The NBA’s strategy is to work with the CBA and make it a stronger league, train coaches, make the CBA better because the more successful basketball is in China the better for the NBA in the long term."
And in the long term, perhaps the NBA will find a way to present live, in-the-flesh basketball to a massive, basketball-loving, brand-conscious and increasingly wealthy domestic Chinese market. Until then, the other parts of the business are doing well enough to declare victory.Nick Flynt is a writer for ClipperBlog , part of the True Hoop Network. You can follow Nick on Twitter at @NickFlynt .
ABOUT COOKIES
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?In an All-Star Weekend press conference, David Stern addressed the league's testing for performance-enhancing drugs.
It's a program that looks increasingly inadequate now that we know more than ever about the methods athletes like Lance Armstrong used to evade testers. Major League Baseball already has an agreement in place with their union to add much more rigorous testing, including the invasive-but-effective biological passport.
Without indicating he felt there was anything wrong with the NBA's current system, Stern left the door wide open to change, with a particular prediction about human growth hormone testing next season:
Well, I would say that we have a comprehensive drug testing program that has a long list, probably a hundred or so, I'm not even sure the number, of drugs that are prohibited, including HGH, subject to an agreement of the validity of an appropriate testing protocol.
And we expect that to happen, we really do, before the start of next season.
With respect to the biological passport, I think the blood test is the precursor to the biological passport. And that's a subject for discussion with the Players' Association.
And let me say, our players have been front and center with us on this one. They want to be and be perceived as playing in a drug-free sport. We have six unannounced tests a year. Two of those are authorized out of season. And we have an independent group of experts that adds drugs to the list of prescribed drugs. And we test in a way that the samples get sent to an approved lab and we're there.
There will always be some kind of leap frogging there, as there was in 1983 which we were the first league to have an anti-drug program and dealt with a variety of things. So it's always subject to be improved. But together with our Players' Association, which I think has taken a leadership role here, I'm sure will continue to improve it.What does an NBA head coaching candidate look like in 2013?
A few new trends have emerged in the coaching ranks, namely the Rise of the Video Kids (see Spoelstra, Erik; Vogel, Frank), but most hires in the NBA follow a well-trodden path. Owners and executives love a track record of success and will pay top dollar for a big name. NBA assistants with winning pedigrees are still popular, as are former NBA players who look the part. In general, guys whose career numbers are visible on Basketball Reference are preferable to those who never suited up in the NBA, while college coaches are viewed with a jaundiced eye.
Some of these biases make sense on the surface, but general managers and owners are often driven by their aversion to risk. By and large, a head coaching hire ranks behind only free agency and the draft as a primary factor when measuring a front office’s competence. The easiest way to pass this test is to hire a winner. The second easiest is to hire someone who seems like a winner and, if he loses, remind ownership and the public of that pedigree. There’s a reason we see certain names pop up on short lists each time there’s a coaching vacancy -- there’s comfort in familiarity. That sentiment becomes stronger when a dark horse like Mike Dunlap doesn’t succeed in Charlotte.
It’s difficult to assess whether the league as a whole is doing a good job of hiring coaches. There are only 1,230 wins to go around each season, so even if we could identify the 30 most capable NBA head coaches in some foolproof, empirical way, about half of them would lose more games than they’d win -- and some of them would lose a whole bunch. There’s no simple way to look at someone and know for certain whether they can thrive as an NBA head coach.
A survey of several league execs, players and other team personnel about what makes a quality hire revealed a few common themes:
It’s all about the buy-in: Game management, preparation and the whiteboard arts are all indispensable qualities for an NBA head coach, but the ability to earn the faith of a superstar and key rotation players is qualification No. 1. “You can always find a graybeard or a grinder who can come up with coverages,” says an NBA front office exec. “But what most teams are looking for now is someone who knows how to build a culture and get the stars to buy in.”
Risk is in the eye of the beholder: What constitutes a safe or risky hire? Ask a dozen execs and you’ll get two dozen answers. For many, coaches from the college ranks represent a considerable risk, and the NBA coaching trail is littered with big-name NCAA coaches with winning pedigrees who flamed out at the next level. Others cite career assistants as high-risk. “You never really know how much of an assistant’s success is based on who his head coach is, and how much of it is real,” one NBA exec says.
Not every fit is a great fit: NBA organizations aren’t one-size-fits-all. They each have a unique character that starts with ownership and management. Some teams project a buttoned-up corporate culture, while others have that foozball-in-the-employee-lounge, open floor plan feel. A coaching candidate who might thrive in one situation won’t necessarily be the right fit in another. Roster, market and ownership are all major variables when measuring fit.
Money is (almost) always an issue: With each passing season, the NBA inducts more owners who come from a “new economy” background, a place where every expenditure is examined for value and efficiency. In this world, wins are measured by the dollar, so spending $4 million per year for a coach if you feel similar results can be achieved with a coach at $1.2 million doesn’t add up.
As we head into the thick of hiring season, here are seven candidates regarded as capable future NBA head coaches. None of the seven have previously held the head job in the NBA -- and some aren’t necessarily the safest choices by conventional measures -- but each would bring an intriguing set of skills and attributes to the job:
David Fizdale, Miami Heat assistant coach
Give Erik Spoelstra the slightest opening and he’ll gush about the impact Fizdale has had as a stabilizing force, teacher and communicator in the circus environment that’s enveloped the Heat over the past three seasons. Fizdale has been instrumental in the evolution of LeBron James’ post game, as well as the feeding and caring of the Heat’s superstar core. When there are new schemes to be implemented or skills to be refined, Fizdale takes it upon himself to make sure the work gets done.
There are a dozens of assistants in the NBA who are certified basketball brainiacs, but few of them have Fizdale’s combination of acumen and capacity to relate to NBA players, despite having never played in the league.
“[Fizdale] grew up hard and fought to get to where he is,” says another NBA power broker. “It’s given him an ability to connect because he understands where a lot of these guys came from.”
Like Spoelstra, Fizdale is an alumnus of the Heat’s video room during the 1990s. He also cut his teeth in the player development realm at Tim Grgurich’s venerable big man camp and as an assistant with Golden State and Atlanta. There’s a broad consensus that the question isn’t if, but when Fizdale will be tapped for a lead job.
David Joerger, Memphis Grizzlies assistant coach
Not long ago, success as a head coach in the Continental Basketball Association was a reliable predictor of success in the NBA. Phil Jackson, George Karl and Flip Saunders, among others, all came up through the minor leagues before landing on an NBA bench. So did Joerger, who won five championships in seven seasons as a head coach in the IBA, CBA and D-League -- all before turning 35 years old.
“He loves the craft,” says an NBA general manager. “Look what he’s done with [the Memphis] defense. He’s got Thibodeau’s thing for defense, but he’s a lot more likable than Thibs.”
When Lionel Hollins delegated the Memphis’ defensive game plan to Joerger, the Grizzlies were the league’s 24th-ranked defense. In the three seasons since, they’ve finished ninth, then seventh and now second in defensive efficiency, and they did it with Zach Randolph at power forward and an unusually small point guard in Mike Conley. It’s rare that NBA players cite their assistants by name, but Tony Allen routinely praises Joerger’s defensive blueprint as an essential ingredient in the Grizz’s success.
Joerger loves to problem-solve and grapple with game theory, and he has an appreciation of analytics. He knows which NBA point guards, in descending order, reject screens most frequently and understands how to impart that information to players. Most of all, Joerger has an acute awareness of what each player on the roster can and can't do. Randolph won't be asked to perform Joakim Noah tasks, and a unit's collective shortcomings are priced into coverage schemes.
Every NBA team these days wants to patent a defensive system, and those in search of an architect have a natural candidate in Joerger.
Fred Hoiberg, Iowa State head coach
Every once in a while, the name of a prominent college coach will circulate as potential NBA material. The communicative and well-tailored Jay Wright was the trendy choice back in 2009 after Villanova’s Final Four run.
Yet for the most part, college coaches have been seen as untouchable by most NBA front offices after a procession of high-profile failures over the past two decades. Are the principles of college ball not transferable to the pro level, or is the under-performance of college coaches a function of the general disposition of the men in question and the rosters they inherited?
Whatever the case, Hoiberg would have all the bases covered. Unlike most of the coaches from the college ranks who dabbled in the NBA, Hoiberg played 10 seasons in the league and has an intimate knowledge of the rhythms and demands of NBA life. After his retirement, he served in the Minnesota Timberwolves front office and was passed over for the top job in basketball operations when David Kahn was hired in 2009. Hoiberg endured a season in the Kahn administration before leaving to coach at Iowa State, where he has effectively rebuilt a flailing program into a tourney team.
“He’s a worker bee who has proven he can coach,” says one NBA exec. “If [Rick Adelman] decides to retire, he’d be the perfect fit in Minnesota. He has a track record there. He could coach Rick’s team, and even coach Rick’s philosophy.”
In retrospect, striking out on his own to gain valuable experience coaching his alma mater was probably a blessing for Hoiberg. But after a while, recruiting gets old and there’s a lot of goodwill for him among NBA decision-makers who see him as a young coach with a bright future.
Steve Kerr, TNT analyst
Would you rather evaluate talent or put it to use? Manage the expectations of a moody owner or a dynamic player? Construct a message for a coach, or just be the coach?
Kerr’s three-year stint as general manager of the Phoenix Suns proved that, with most NBA franchises, the easiest way to have an impact on the floor is not as an executive but as a head coach. Many insiders feel that when Kerr is ready to jump back in, it will be on the sidelines. He’d likely want a major say in personnel decisions and would look to avoid many of the trappings encountered in Phoenix, but if the right gig came along, he’d strongly consider the challenge.
“Steve speaks and thinks the game and has a lot of institutional knowledge,” an NBA executive says. “He sees the value of 1-through-12 and would understand how to manage delicate personalities in the locker room. After [Phoenix Suns owner Robert] Sarver, it would be a vacation.”
Personality management is more vocation than vacation in the NBA, but Kerr has a shadowbox full of rings. It’s probably not in his nature to plunk them down on a table a la Pat Riley, but a championship pedigree commands respect. Combine that with Kerr’s even disposition and silver tongue, and a convincing profile of an NBA head coach emerges.
Alex Jensen, Canton Charge head coach
Jensen was the near-unanimous answer to the question, “Who’s the most likely future NBA head coach currently in the D-League?”
The 36-year-old Jensen just finished his second winning season as the head coach in Canton, the Cleveland Cavaliers’ owned-and-operated affiliate, but he’s best known in basketball circles as the late Rick Majerus’ star protegee. Jensen played for Majerus at the University of Utah in the mid-90s and was the starting forward on the Utes team that lost the 1998 title game to Kentucky. After bumping around the Turkish league -- with a few stops in between in Japan, Spain and the CBA -- Jensen reunited with Majerus, joining his staff at Saint Louis for four seasons.
Jensen has preached Majerus’ doctrine in Canton, where the ball must be shared and players must defend. He’s taken Majerus’ motion offense and peppered it with some of the basic high ball-screens and pin-downs that dominate NBA offenses.
“[Jensen] is cerebral and smart,” an NBA coach says. “He already had a great feel for the game, then he soaked up everything Rick [Majerus] taught him.”
D-League players have been getting call-ups and making key contributions at the NBA level. It’s just a matter of time before we see an NBA team dig into the D-League ranks for a head coach.
Robert Pack, Los Angeles Clippers assistant coach
Had Vinny Del Negro not been granted a reprieve by Clippers owner Donald T. Sterling in March 2012, Pack would have been a playoff head coach last season as Del Negro’s replacement, despite only three seasons of service as an NBA assistant.
Pack raised his profile as a hard-nosed but fair instructor, the guy on staff unafraid to get in a player’s face and tell him when he’s disrespecting the game. The Clippers’ roster is a tough audience of veterans and young supernovas, but Pack quickly earned credibility as someone who offered coaching and an honest ear.
Pack brings a floor general’s approach to the game, and can claim Darren Collison and Eric Bledsoe as young point guards who flourished under his direction. Chris Paul has conveyed his respect for Pack’s expertise and manner.
The short résumé might give some potential employers pause, but pair him with a seasoned assistant steeped in game preparation and Pack figures to be a quick study. The Clippers were ready to hand him the keys to the family wagon during a playoff run. A young team looking to invest in the future could afford him the time to grow, as Orlando has with Jacque Vaughn.
David Blatt, Maccabi Tel Aviv head coach
If basketball is an American game gone global, then Blatt is its quintessential ambassador. Raised near Boston, he has spent the last two decades establishing himself as one of Europe’s premier coaches, currently with Maccabi and during the 2012 Olympics with the Russian national team.
It’s been a few years since the persistent chatter about an NBA team -- Toronto the most popular hypothetical -- hiring a head coach out of Europe. Whenever that line of inquiry is resuscitated, Blatt is the most oft-mentioned name, along with Ettore Messina (formerly of Mike Brown’s staff in Los Angeles) and Sergio Scariolo (head coach at Milano, and the Spanish national team that’s won gold at the last two FIBA EuroBasket championships).
Blatt’s American upbringing and playing career at Princeton under Pete Carril make him a logical trailblazer should an NBA team want to take the plunge. Blatt wouldn’t likely be lured by an assistant’s spot on the bench nor by a consultant’s title similar to Messina’s with the Lakers.
“[Blatt] would want some authorship of the roster and a seat at the table,” says a member of an NBA front office who keeps a close watch on Europe. “Mike D’Antoni is the analog.”
D’Antoni was the last real import, and no NBA team has expressed public interest in a coaching candidate from Europe recently. Still, the prospect of a mind like Blatt’s taking the reins of an NBA team is a fascinating thought exercise. Given Blatt's body of work, characterizing such a hire a risk would be silly.I know that the playoffs start tomorrow. And I know that just about every player is hoping for the same thing.
They are hoping to be hot.
Being hot is like basketball's magic trump card. How can the Jazz beat the Lakers? How can the Sixers beat the Magic? How can the Pistons beat the Celtics?
There are 100 answers -- but the easiest one is simply to be hot.
But are you aware that roughly one zillion studies, including a recent one that was extremely rigorous, find that there is literally no such thing as being hot?
Don't Speak Yet
There's a lot to this story. It's like that moment when you walk up the stairs out of the subway station into the bright day light. Just take a second and figure out where you are.
While you're standing there, blinking, trying to feel less discombobulated, watch this Monty Python clip, and then come back and acknowledge that all through human history there has been a difference between what we are pretty sure we know, and what we really know.
The people in Monty Python's dark ages are pretty sure that someone who weighs the same as a duck is made of wood and is therefore a witch. (What they really know, of course, is diddly squat.)
Since primitive times of medieval comedy, we have, thankfully, learned one hell of a lot. We have science, we have medicine and we have knowledge! (Now we know that of course there's no need to involve ducks -- the best witch test is simply to chuck water on them.)
Sure, there will always be detours. Much "science" was later proved untrue. But by and large, over time, we have taken a lot of things that we thought we knew and turned them into things that we know are either really wrong, really right, or really too complicated to figure out right now.
And you know what? It's a painful process. We rely on assumptions. We need them. There's too much going on around us to dig into every little thing, and sometimes life feels better when you stick with what you know and leave the rest to the great unknown. So witches are made of wood, OK? You can't just go poking around, questioning, and pretending every damned thing can be put into a spreadsheet.
Timeout
By some magic (know any witches?) you're the head coach of an NBA basketball team. You're down one with twenty seconds to play. Looking around the huddle, you see a power forward who normally shoots 40% from the floor, but is a scalding hot eight of ten so far tonight, and has hit his last three. Then there's your shooting guard, who normally shoots 50% from the floor, but has oddly made just two of ten so far tonight, and has missed his last two.
One of them is going to be the first option in the play you draw up. You have got a decision to make -- and if you're like just about every basketball coach on the planet, one of the many things that will inform your decision is the reality that your power forward has some magic coursing through his veins right now. Everyone in the gym knows that right now he is hot, which means he's more likely than usual to hit his next shot.
And that matters.
But does it, really?
The idea that a player can be hot ... is that something you know, or something that you think you know?
Money
I have three coins. One of them is truly 50/50. Another is weighted to be streaky -- it's slightly more likely to repeat the side that came up the last time. And the other is the opposite of streak -- if it's heads, the next time it's slightly more likely to be tails.
Which coin is this?
Heads
Tails
Tails
Tails
Heads
Tails
Tails
Tails
Heads
Tails
Tails
Heads
Heads
Heads
Tails
Heads
Heads
Tails
Tails
Heads
Heads
According to research into this kind of stuff (and there's a lot of it) most people will look at that list and see patterns and guess that's the streaky coin. You can even see your power forward's eight for ten in there, if you start counting from the first "tails."
But guess what -- there is no streak here. These are typical results of a normal 50/50 coin, and if you're seeing anything other than random chance, they're projections of your own mind.
Which is a normal human tendency: To project order where is none. (This also allows parents to convince themselves that their kids' rooms are "pretty tidy.")
Which means that even a poor-shooting power forward will make several shots in a row once in a while, even if he never actually has nights when he is more likely than normal to make shots.
In that timeout, as you're coaching, you'd probably like to know what's going on. Is he, in fact, hot, or is he like that coin up there -- once in a blue moon he'll hit a few in a row?
Because if there is such a thing as "being hot," having nights when your muscles, form, and vision are freakishly in tune, then you have yourself an 80% shooter who needs the ball. But if there are just random short-term variations, then you could be entrusting the game to a low-skill player who has never been that good at shooting.
Lunch
I hadn't slept much, hadn't eaten much breakfast, and was starving by the time lunch rolled around at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference a few weeks ago. We scarfed boxed food over a lunch-time presentation, delivered over the crinkling of chip bags, by celebrated University of Chicago economics professor, and Yao Ming's agent, John Huizinga.
I sat in the back, next to John Hollinger. I was eager to learn about the hot hand, but mainly concerned with eating the two box lunches I had secured, while maintaining the appearance of only eating one.
That's when Huizinga put the power in Powerpoint. Explaining the work he had done with researcher Charles (Sandy) Weil (you can see their slides and more here) had done some serious digging into the hot hand issue. One of the first steps was to set up a vast database sorting through every single play of four years of the NBA. They did this so carefully that Sandy found several instances of mistakes in the data, enough that about 1.5% of the games had to be tossed because of oddities like a missed shot, followed by a defensive rebound, followed by another shot by the team that took the first shot. Was that a missed turnover, or a rebound that should have been offensive?
The hot hand has been studied a zillion times. This study was different in various ways -- by being smarter in approach, mainly. But also by being bigger. Lots of players each of whom shoots a lot. They ended up with 49 players who had each taken at least 1,400 shots in any of the four seasons beginning with 2002-2003. The list of names includes LeBron James, Kobe Bryant, Paul Pierce, Baron Davis, Allen Iverson, Stephon Marbury, Gilbert Arenas, Tracy McGrady, Dwyane Wade ... and on the face of it, it's a no-brainer that if anyone in the NBA has been hot, these players are it.
The seasons in question gave them more than 900,000 shots to mess with -- hundreds of times more than the Gilovich, Vallone, and Tversky paper that had defined the field since its publication in 1985. Of those, more than 75,000 were from the 49 key players.
Slide after slide was loaded down with dense and fascin
ating data (some of which is described here). At first I had been hurrying through my lunch, so as to make it less clear that I had two. But then I started hurrying even more, so that I could hear perfectly without the chewing. I didn't want to miss anything.
When they got to the key point, the findings were powerful. Sandy Weil summarizes it in an e-mail: "What we found is that, contrary to the existence of the hot hand, the 49 prolific shooters in our sample are less likely to make a shot after a made basket than after a miss."
You get that? If your guy has just made a shot, it slightly decreases the chance that his next shot will go in. (The part of you that is still coaching in that timeout ... what are you going to do with this news?)
"We found this effect stronger if the player made a jump shot on the previous shot than if they had made a non-jumper (mostly layups and dunks). The average of the players in our study shoots about 46.7% on a shot after missing his previous shot. But if he made a non-jumper, he'll shoot around 45%. And after a made jump shot, he'll shoot around 43.3%," explains Weil.
So what that means is that if you're looking for the guy most likely to make the next shot -- what any coach would want in a late game timeout -- this survey suggests you're no better off handing it to the guy who hit his last shot.
As I took my last swallow of lunch, I turned to Hollinger -- who internalizes numbers like few on the planet -- and asked if this debate was closed. Had they really killed the hot hand?
"It's pretty convincing," he says. Hollinger has since written: "Obviously, it's extremely difficult to offer 100 percent proof that something doesn't exist, but this presentation comes about as close as you can get. In other words, the burden of proof clearly has shifted. Until we're offered some kind of evidence as to how or why the Hot Hand might exist, the default, conventional-wisdom position now should be that it doesn't ... and that continued belief in its existence is causing players to make suboptimal offensive decisions."
Players Beg to Differ
This is all of basketball history we're talking about here. This is something every basketball player has felt in his own bones? Can we really kill it that fast?
There needs to be some kind of explanation. Just for fun, let's assume that the idea of the hot hand is real, and sometimes some shooters really do have streaks beyond what random chance would dictate. Could there be things to cause these results?
Maybe after the Kobe Bryants of the world make a shot or two, a new tougher defense comes into play.
Maybe after the Kobe Bryants of the world make a shot or two, their teammates stand around and watch the show, leaving Bryant to fly solo against a double-team or worse.
Maybe after the Kobe Bryants of the world start to think they are hot, they start getting a really broad definition of what's a good shot.
Maybe there's something else we're not thinking of.
Working from play by play data (like this) Huizinga and Weil had no real rigorous or involved way to judge the first two of these (although they took a crack at it) but they did hunt around in pursuit of evidence of the third point, and found quite a bit.
Weil explains: "In looking further, we found that their shot selection skews more towards taking a jump shot after a make than after a miss. Players take about 77% jumpers after a missed shot but they take about 85% jumpers after a made jump shot. And, even if we just look at, say, their performance on 2-point jump shots, they shoot worse on the shot following a made jump shot than if they had missed the previous shot."
They also took a crack at ruling out the role of improved defense: "We wanted to see if we could say if the defense overplays the player, forcing him into harder shots, or if the offense calls his number more. We looked at this several ways but the most compelling results came from our looking at two different measures of how soon the player shoots. We looked at how many seconds the player's team possesses the ball between his shots. And we looked at the probability that the player takes his team's next shot after his own miss or make."
Their idea was that if the defense gets tougher on a certain player, then he wouldn't take his next shot as soon, and he would be less likely to shoot at all. I don't know if I buy that tough defense inspires slow shots -- when the double team comes early in the clock, it forces a decision, and that decision may be to shoot. (Against single coverage, Kobe Bryant can dribble all day. Against two players, just holding on to the ball is sometimes a concern -- making that tough shot over the double team might wiser than it might appear. Part of its value is that it's not a turnover.)
Weil says they found evidence to support the idea that players who have just hit a shot tend to have shot selection issues on their next shot: "The player shoots, on average, 56 seconds later after a missed jump shot but shoots 47 seconds later after a made jump shot. They shoot the next shot about 26% of the time after a missed jump shot but they shoot 34% of the time after a made jump shot."
Enter Bill James and Dean Oliver
As Hollinger pointed out, it is very tough to prove something does not exist -- looking really hard for something and not finding it is not the same thing as proving it never existed in the first place.
So, did Huizinga and Weil not find evidence of a hot hand, or did they find there is no such thing?
As the presentation ended, and I was on my way to recycle a couple of lunch boxes, Celtics' stat guy Mike Zarren walked by muttering about Bill James' "Fog" article. (For some reason, that last sentence sounds like a made up transition, but I swear it really happened.) I asked Zarren about it later and he admitted this is one of his favorite papers in all of statistics. I read it, and the relevant passage would seem to be James' point about a study purporting to disprove the existence of clutch hitters.
We ran astray because we have been assuming that random data is proof of nothingness, when in reality random data proves nothing. In essence, starting with Dick Cramer's article, Cramer argued, "I did an analysis which should have identified clutch hitters, if clutch hitting exists. I got random data; therefore, clutch hitters don't exist." Cramer was using random data as proof of nothingness -- and I did the same, many times, and many other people also have done the same. But I'm saying now that's not right; random data proves nothing -- and it cannot be used as proof of nothingness. Why? Because whenever you do a study, if your study completely fails, you will get random data. Therefore, when you get random data, all you may conclude is that your study has failed. Cramer's study may have failed to identify clutch hitters because clutch hitters don't exist -- as he concluded -- or it may have failed to identify clutch hitters because the method doesn't work -- as I now believe. We don't know. All we can say is that the study has failed.
Sandy Weil knows all about the Fog article, and agrees that the thing they went looking for -- evidence of the hot hand -- could still be lost in the statistical fog. But what he's saying is that rath
er than not finding anything, they found strong evidence of something else: A player taking worse shots when he thinks he's hot.
"We're not saying people don't get hot," he explains. "But we're saying that if a player gets hot, it's not enough to care about, at least not compared to the effect of his thinking he's hot and performing less well because of that belief."
Hunting Expedition
David Thorpe trains basketball players, and one of the things he cautions them against is what he calls "hunting shots." By that he means getting into a mode where they feel they must be taking lots of shots.
When I saw the list of people Huizinga and Weil studied, I thought to myself: These guys basically hunt shots for a living. The researchers excluded anyone who didn't shoot the most on their team, or shot fewer than 1,400 shots in a season. These players are expected, and paid, to shoot against any defense, and they see a lot of great defenses.
Hot hand issues aside, this study is entirely convincing to me that high volume shooters tend to hurt their teams by being too aggressive in seeking shots, especially after making a few. (One of the findings of the paper was that if every player on a team shot more aggressively after a make like those in the study, it would cost a typical team 4.5 wins per season.) Shooters beware: Some of your worst shots apparently come when you think you're hot, and your "heat checks" aren't helping your team.
This study convinced me that a lot of what seems like hot shooting is really just hits and misses falling into groups randomly.
Weil points out that, studying 49 shooters, you'd expect 24 of them to be more streaky than a random pattern of people with their shooting percentage. But they found just seven of them on the streaky side of random -- suggesting streaky shooting is much rarer than people seeing streaks where there are none.
But did this study stop me believing in the hot hand entirely? I can tell you that the other night I played in a game with a teammate who seemed to be an OK shooter. In the last game of the night, though, he nailed a couple of 3s. And it made a big impression on me: I immediately started setting picks for him, passing to him, and scheming ways to get him the ball on his preferred wing. I'm not even sure he was the best shooter on our team, but he was hot, and in some way I couldn't help but believe that mattered. And he did go on to hit something like four of five 3-pointers to close the game.
Dean Oliver points out in his book "Basketball on Paper" that the last major paper to refute the existence of the hot hand included research with Cornell students. They were asked to gamble on whether or not their next shot would go in. If they could feel when they were hot, they'd win a lot of those bets. As a group, they did no do well at all.
But as Oliver points out, four of them did demonstrate a significant ability to predict their shooting. And if there were no such thing as a hot hand, how could that be possible?
Game On
So, remember that coach in the timeout -- with a bad shooter having a hot night, and a good shooter having a cold night? What's the right call?
I asked Sandy Weil if he would really give the ball to the guy who has made just two of ten shots: "Your question presumes that we don't know why these players have excelled or struggled tonight. Maybe the 50% shooter has the flu today. Perhaps we know that the opponent has been double-teaming off of the 40% shooter to force bad shots by our 50% shooter. We may know that our 40% shooter has consistently beaten his defender off the dribble tonight but that he can't do that against most other teams' defenders. To answer your question: I think that I'd want to draw up a play to get us the best shot possible. And, unless I understand why these two players are performing the way they are, I'd prefer for the 50% percent shooter for the primary option."
In other words, counting on the hot hand was always dangerous. Actual basketball strategy is far superior. That was true before this study, it's still true after, and that's something we really know.The NBA is winning. It's already a "global money machine," according to Forbes, and new TV deals will only make that sweeter.
Not to mention, it's fun! The NBA's young players include an embarrassment of promise -- not just "plenty years left" stars such as LeBron James and Kevin Durant, but also James Harden, Steph Curry, Kyrie Irving, Paul George, Blake Griffin, Anthony Davis, Damian Lillard and so many others. This year and every year for the foreseeable future, the playoffs will feature one amazing showdown after another. Hats off to all involved.
So, it's time to rush out and buy a ticket to a game, right?
Well ...
"Listen, I do feel badly for fans," said Jeff Van Gundy, on the phone to The Herd from San Antonio on Wednesday. "I feel awful that we make them watch back-to-back games that often turn out to be, you know, low-energy affairs. I think the league has to eliminate back-to-back games, or at least reduce the number."
So sometimes you'll see a team that's mailing it in.
But what about if you go and see a primo team, a team thick with stars, like the Heat? You'd be safe then, right?
That's a little tricky, too. "Their performance over the last couple of weeks has been totally substandard, when it comes to championship focus and effort," Van Gundy said of the defending champions. He pointed out that this is hardly the first time the Heat have mailed it in. "Now last year they also were in a point of struggle, until they ripped off that 27-game winning streak."
In other words, there are times the Heat are the best team in the land, but it's in fits and starts, not every game. They save their best efforts for certain moments, and the regular season is iffy.
That's also true of many good teams, including last year's other finalists, the Spurs. They frequently sit their best players for part or all of regular-season games, in the name of rest -- something that's emerging as a trend among cutting-edge teams.
And, evidently, with good reason! Yet again this season, stars who play long minutes, going hard all regular season, seem to be getting hurt at a bummer of a rate. Chris Paul, Derrick Rose, Russell Westbrook, Kobe Bryant and Steve Nash are all out for extended periods. Dwyane Wade is in and out of the lineup. Eric Bledsoe, Kemba Walker, Al Horford, Brook Lopez, Danilo Gallinari, Ryan Anderson and Jrue Holiday are needle-moving players who are on the shelf.
It has been a decade since a team won a title with its top players playing heavy minutes, and that's a reality that contending teams wrestle with all regular season. As much as Erik Spoelstra may want to delight fans by playing Wade every night, doing so evidently hurts his team's chances in the postseason. What would you do if you were in his shoes?
And of course, we haven't even yet mentioned the biggest problem with the regular season: A lot of the teams don't even want to be there. Every season many teams have front offices who hope the entire 82 games go by in a flash, having created intentionally putrid rosters designed to lose now, with an eye on draft picks. This season, for a lot of teams, culminates not in title hopes, but in lottery hopes. The tankapalooza is on.
Injuries. Fatigue. Forced rest. Intentional losses. Buy a ticket to a regular-season NBA game, and there's an excellent chance one or more of these factors will keep you from seeing the best basketball in the world.
There's a unifying theme, there, though. A root cause: Too many games.
The promise of buying a ticket to an NBA game is seeing the best athletes in the world at peak performance. LeBron James, Kevin Durant and Derrick Rose ... the best players in the world are the league's most precious resource. And they are as well prepared and competitive as humans get. But the facts on the ground are that their best efforts are finite, and 82 games appears to be too many times over a year to ask them to turn it all the way on. Whether limited by injury, fatigue, schedule or strange draft rules that reward losing, the simple fact is that 1,230 regular-season games is, evidently, and increasingly obviously, more than we can reasonably expect the NBA's 400 or so athletes to produce their best. All kinds of players and teams are limited in delivering their best level night in and night out.
One of the worst strategies you can have, in this ultra-marathon, is to go all-out every minute. That, as we'll be exploring more as the season unfolds, is exactly what fans rightly want on any given night, but it's not a good long-term plan in a game where injury avoidance and rest are paramount to title chances.
So, yes, the NBA is in fantastic shape, because of its global fans who delight in the hard work and brilliance of its players, coaches and executives -- and despite the excessive and compromised regular season.Arizona's Sean Miller and the Cavs' Tyronn Lue may be coming to an NBA head-coaching job near you. USA Today Sports
The coaching carousel slowed down in 2014-15 after a flurry of turnover the previous couple of seasons. While we could conceivably see a couple of firings ahead this summer, most NBA teams and head coaches seem to have happy marriages, as only Sacramento, Orlando and Denver have made in-season changes.
Does this relative calm suggest that NBA teams are getting better at the practice of hiring head coaches?
Like most marriages, it's impossible to know at the altar or under the chuppah what the relationship will look like 15 years down the road. But there's a healthy consensus around the league that the vacancies filled during the Great Purges of 2013 and 2014 were done so thoughtfully.
David Blatt, Mike Budenholzer, Steve Clifford, Jeff Hornacek, Dave Joerger, Steve Kerr, Jason Kidd, Quin Snyder and Brad Stevens -- none has completed two full seasons of service, yet all can claim success relative to expectation. Even Mike Malone, one of the three in-season dismissals, has plenty of sympathizers who feel he got a raw deal in Sacramento.
Numerous conversations with execs, current and former coaches, players and scouts revealed some common ideas about how the league is identifying and hiring coaching talent:
You're a manager first: It's not that whiteboard wizardry is out of fashion, but "can get the buy-in" is the new "defensive mastermind." Tactical prowess means zilch if a coach lacks the power of persuasion to get his team to run all that pretty stuff. To do that, a coach has to manage the sensitivities of his players, all of whom require different messages. He has to handle a large staff, sell ideas to the guys upstairs and schmooze the media (but resist taking credit, lest he tick off players, management and ownership). Owners and general managers hiring a coach appreciate more than ever not only the enormousness of the job, but the nuanced roles that go with it.
The new blood: A couple of general managers noted that the success stories from the classes of 2013 and 2014 are largely first-time NBA head coaches. More notably, the retreads are having a tough go of it. The game is evolving quickly, and those who see a head-coaching gig in the NBA as continuing education are reaping the benefits, and those who feel as though they have all the answers are finding themselves at a loss when they learn the questions have changed.
There's no hard-and-fast formula: The league is learning that there's no one single way to arrive at the first chair on an NBA sideline. Start from the top of the leaguewide standings and you'll find teams coached by: a former player who had stints as both a general manager and a color analyst, a career assistant to the game's top coaching luminary, a standout D-League and CBA champion coach, a Hall of Fame power forward and veteran point guard, neither of whom served a single game as an assistant coach, as well as a legend of European coaching. Accordingly, few front offices have a predetermined type anymore. It's the human, not the resume.
The dual role: Find a grouchy NBA head coach and there's a good chance his primary grievance is that he hasn't been furnished with a roster that can execute what he wants to run. He's also peeved because he hasn't been consulted sufficiently on the selection of those players. In response, a number of prestige head coaches are angling for final authority on all basketball operations matters. Doc Rivers, Stan Van Gundy and Flip Saunders have joined Gregg Popovich as principals who preside over both the sideline and front office. With Danny Ferry in exile, Budenholzer is currently the Hawks' senior basketball ops manager. George Karl and Kidd have a very strong say with ownership in Sacramento and Milwaukee, respectively. But there's good reason why this model rarely succeeds. NBA head coach and NBA general manager are jobs far too demanding to combine unless there's the utmost trust in those empowered with the day-to-day responsibilities (see San Antonio).
In the spring of 2013 and 2014, we canvassed insiders for the names of coaches who, given the opportunity to lead an NBA team, have the tools to succeed. Those on the previous two lists who subsequently have been hired include Blatt, Joerger, Kerr and Snyder.
An individual on the list can't have previously had an NBA head-coaching gig. We also bypass those who have been on the list previously, though it's worth noting Fred Hoiberg, Dave Fizdale, Jim Boylen and Adrian Griffin each popped up more than once this time.
Here are six coaches whose combination of intelligence, work ethic, experience, people skills and temperament make them interesting candidates for an NBA head-coaching position either sooner or later:
Kenny Atkinson, Atlanta Hawks assistant coach
The arrival of a new head coach often signals the exodus of the previous staff. But when Budenholzer was brought on in Atlanta in 2013, Ferry strongly recommended retaining Atkinson, his first hire. Budenholzer didn't need much persuading. Player development was Atkinson's strength and it was a priority in Atlanta. And feedback among the Hawks players was so overwhelmingly positive bringing Atkinson back was a no-brainer.
After four seasons under Mike D'Antoni in New York, Atkinson has flourished in Atlanta as far more than a player-development guy. He's earned a reputation as an affable teacher who is both cerebral and a high-level communicator. He thoroughly enjoys getting on the floor with a player and sees that individual development work as a collaboration between player and coach.
"He believes you can improve as a player, even at the highest level, and that there's always something you can add to your game," Hawks big man Al Horford says. "He's been here for three years with me, and he's challenged me. For instance, before he got here, I was pretty much a shooter on the pick-and-pop. I was never really driving. Kenny has challenged me to put the ball on the floor. It's something we've worked on together, and now it's something I feel comfortable doing."
After a nice college career as a point guard at Richmond, Atkinson had a long career in Europe, where he stayed to coach before heading to New York. He's worldly, with a curiosity for forward-thinking ideas, everything from injury prevention to analytics. He's someone who would look for new solutions as a head coach rather than insist he has every answer and rely on tired conventional wisdom.
Philadelphia general manager Sam Hinkie gave Atkinson a look in 2013, and there's a strong belief around the league that he's earned another series of interviews as one of the top assistant coaches currently on the market.
Tyronn Lue, Cleveland Cavaliers assistant coach
After three seasons under Rivers in Boston and Los Angeles, Lue has quickly established himself as a whole-package coaching prospect. He was pursued vigorously by the Cavs in their head-coaching search last spring, and ultimately finished as a strong runner-up to Blatt, making such a strong impression during the process that Cleveland offered him a deal in excess of $6 million to join them as associate head coach. Who better to complement an Ivy League-educated, often stubborn, first-time 55-year-old head coach who'd spent his career in Europe than a former NBA vet with a passionate knowledge of the NBA game and its rhythms to whom players flock?
"He respects the work that's required to do the job and he has the gift of being able to verbalize things to players in a straightforward way without being offensive," Rivers says. "He sees things in games a lot of people can't see. He'd see opportunities for us -- in games, watching film, observing -- and would bring them to me. He has a chance to be very special."
When Rivers took over in Los Angeles in July 2013, he quickly dispatched for Lue, who spent the entire summer breaking down the league, and meticulously studying the Clippers' core. His observations were instrumental in building the architecture for a defense that finished the season ranked seventh in efficiency.
Clippers players loved Lue, and he's earned the trust of a Cavs roster with several combustible parts. By all accounts, he has been crucial in maintaining relative order and harmony in the locker room. Lue is on a four-year deal, but it's difficult to imagine he'll still be the associate head coach in Cleveland three seasons from now.
Jay Larranaga, Boston Celtics assistant coach
The basketball world is a far more interconnected place than it was 15 years ago. In that time, international basketball has made a strong imprint in the NBA game and the D-League has grown into a laboratory for ideas. As they survey the landscape for potential NBA head coaches, an increasing number of franchises value diversity of experience in a candidate. For those who do, Larranaga is a natural.
Mention of Larranaga's name was met with praise around the league as a hard-working pro who is universally liked and respected. Though Larranaga is the son of longtime college coach Jim Larranaga, he clawed his way up through the ranks without any free passes. He played pro ball in Europe for over a decade, enjoyed a solid run in the D-League as a head coach for two seasons before landing on Rivers' bench in Boston, where he remains under Stevens.
"Coaching is in his blood and he's been around the game his whole life," Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge says. "He's a class act, an intelligent, experienced basketball mind."
In a player's league with know-it-all owners, miked-up coaches and constant media scrutiny, temperament has never been more important. Larranaga scores well in this event, a coach who understands how to relate to a varied roster of players, can motivate a staff and whose likability will endear him to ownership and the media. In 2013, he got a close look from Philadelphia and consideration to succeed Rivers in Boston. He'll continue to appear on lists for vacancies as he hones his identity as a coach.
Sean Miller, University of Arizona head coach
College basketball is safe for fishing again. With the Celtics' hire of Brad Stevens in 2013, the league now has a blueprint for how to successfully transition an NCAA head coach into the NBA: Identify a thoughtful coach who understands that basketball is about the players and has an agile basketball philosophy. Then offer him security and guide him with patience as he builds a culture.
Hoiberg, whom we featured on the 2013 list, is widely regarded as the next college coach who will make the jump, once he finds the right gig. Over the past couple of years, Miller has emerged as a name execs and scouts view as strong NBA head coach material should he get restless in Tucson.
The son of a legendary high school basketball coach, Miller grew up absorbing the game like a sponge. He was a sick ball handler who, as a kid, showed off his skills in "The Fish Who Saved Pittsburgh," and on "The Tonight Show." Stan Van Gundy has said that Miller and Erik Spoelstra are the only two people he instantly knew were born head coaches. As an assistant at Wisconsin, Van Gundy got to know Miller, who was a Badgers graduate assistant.
"He has always understood the game inside and out," Van Gundy told me last year. "What really got me was how he connected with players. It's natural for players to be skeptical of a 23-year-old guy. But right from the beginning, he's working out high-level players -- Michael Finley, Tracy Webster. He knew what he was talking about, knew how to teach, and they connected to him and respected him. It was amazing to see."
Miller is a charismatic but still mild-mannered personality, a good fit for a team that sees the head-coaching position as an organizational pulpit. But he's also not a guy who carries himself as bigger than the job. In short, Miller is a celebrity coach, which will please an owner. But he's not a prima donna, which will please players ... and the exec making the hire. At the moment, there's no indication that Miller has immediate interest in leaving Arizona. Should that change, he'd have suitors in the NBA.
Nate Bjorkgren, Bakersfield Jam head coach
There's a school of thought among some in the NBA that the most valuable attribute a candidate can have is head-coaching experience somewhere -- be it college, the D-League or overseas. Working as a top assistant under an elite head coach offers all kinds of training, but a head coach is the chief operating officer above all else, and there's no substitute for spending time in the first chair, where the buck stops. For years, basketball's minor leagues served as a testing ground for potential NBA head coaches. Phil Jackson and George Karl both wet their feet in the Continental Basketball Association, and Joerger has proved that minor league basketball is still a quality finishing school.
Bjorkgren has compiled a robust D-League resume with sustained success wherever he's landed. He is known as an intensely self-critical coach who viscerally hates losing. His supporters describe someone who has markedly matured over the past four seasons, and he's learned when to push buttons and when to lay off, both with players and staff.
"He's won everywhere he's been," says Warriors assistant GM Kirk Lacob, who was instrumental in hiring Bjorkgren at Dakota when it was Golden State's affiliate. "He does a great job with players. He connects with them on a personal level, and also he cares about their personal careers."
Regarded less as an innovator-philosopher and more as pragmatic problem-solver, Bjorkgren is a likely candidate to soon find his way to an NBA bench as an assistant -- not unlike Nick Nurse, under whom he served as an assistant -- then possibly an opportunity to roam the sidelines down the road.
Ime Udoka, San Antonio Spurs assistant coach
The former journeyman has fewer than three seasons as an NBA assistant under Popovich, but already has a number of fans around the league who have a ton of admiration for his basketball smarts, manner and personal journey.
Udoka was a fourth-round pick in the NBDL draft, and toiled in obscurity until he got an invite from his hometown Portland Trail Blazers, who were in search of a warm body, and he ended up starting 75 games. Naturally, the Spurs came calling, and he was adopted as family, spending three of the final five seasons of his playing career in San Antonio.
"He exudes a confidence and a comfort in his own skin where people just gravitate to him," Popovich says. "He's a fundamentally sound teacher because he's comfortable with himself, he knows the material and players read it. Often times, I'll say, 'Ime, can you go talk to so-and-so? Go talk to Patty Mills, go talk to Timmy, go talk to Kawhi.' And he'll do it better than I would do it -- and I'm not blowing smoke. The only thing I don't like about him is that he doesn't drink, so I can't enjoy a glass of wine with him. He's really boring at dinner."
Players and coaches who know him describe Udoka as a stoic with an even disposition, more of an inner intensity than a roaring fire. At Spurs U, he's at the finest graduate school in the league, alongside another oft-mentioned name, Boylen, who was listed in 2014 as a future head coach. Udoka probably has a couple more years of seasoning ahead of him, but it's not long before he hits the interview circuit.Timberwolves commentator and basketball oracle Jim Petersen joins Kevin Arnovitz to review Kevin's award ballot, talk a little Timberwolves and reflect on league trends.
ABOUT COOKIES
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?Just before the playoffs begin, Brian Windhorst spotlights the biggest storylines from the NBA regular season.
ABOUT COOKIES
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?BOSTON -- Call them The Other Three.
After the Cleveland Cavaliers rallied from a double-digit deficit to tie the Celtics late in the third quarter of Sunday's Game 4 of the Eastern Conference semifinals, Boston sent out a lineup that featured reserves Tony Allen, Glen Davis and Rasheed Wallace supplementing Rajon Rondo and Paul Pierce.
That's not exactly a trio that strikes fear into the hearts of opponents. Yet with Boston playing what amounted to a must-win game, the Celtics leaned on those three for perhaps the most important stretch of the 2009-10 season.
And all Allen, Davis and Wallace did was spark a 12-0 run that spanned into the fourth quarter as the Celtics pulled off a 97-87 triumph that tied the series at two games apiece as it shifts back to Cleveland.
Allen racked up 15 points on 6-of-7 shooting and finished a team-best plus-14 in the plus-minus category. Davis chipped in five points and three rebounds, while providing the type of energy that statistics can't measure. Wallace overcame four first-half fouls to be a defensive presence and, despite not making a single shot, was dubbed "amazing" by coach Doc Rivers.
"Our bench is huge for us, we can't win without them," said Pierce, whose continued struggles were offset largely by the play of the reserves. "We said it from the start of the series, we need different guys on different nights. [In Game 2], Rasheed stepped up. Tonight, it was Tony Allen and Big Baby. It's going to have to come from a number of guys on any given night, but we have to have it."
The game knotted at 72 in the final seconds of the third quarter, Rondo and Allen got out on the break. Even with LeBron James motoring from behind ready to produce (another) "SportsCenter"-worthy block from behind, Rondo weaved a behind-the-back feed around the two-time MVP and Allen produced a layup to ignite Boston's run.
Allen came up with a steal at the start of the fourth quarter and again Boston was off on a 2-on-1 break with James chasing. This time Allen and Rondo flip-flopped roles, but it was the same result, a layup. Davis soon sandwiched a pair of layups around another Allen driving bucket as the Celtics raced to the rim and took an 84-72 lead with 8:40 to play.
With the season hanging in the balance, Allen and Davis -- both of whom started the season on the injured list -- provided the biggest spark outside of Rondo's otherworldly self.
In addition to playing stellar defense on LeBron James, Tony Allen scored 15 points on 6-of-7 shooting. Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images
"That was key, a big, big, big moment for us," said Davis. "It kind of dictated the game, the way it was going to be played in the fourth quarter. Rondo did a great job making the calls and we made the right plays at the right time."
But more than anything, Boston's reserves looked like they wanted it more. Coming into the series, Rivers stressed that Boston needed to neutralize Anderson Varejao's energy off the Cleveland bench. He had terrorized Boston during the Cavaliers' two regular-season wins over the Celtics.
Varejao scored eight of Cleveland's mere 11 bench points Sunday and had three rebounds, and just one offensive carom. The Cavaliers didn't generate a single second-chance point.
Did the Celtics want it more than Cleveland in Game 4?
"We always want it," said Davis. "I know I want it more than them, if that's what you're asking me."
But could he feel it?
"We went out there and played hard," said Davis. "That's the motto. When we play hard, good things happen."
Wallace missed all three shots he took and had four fouls in just eight first-half minutes, retreating to the bench just 2:09 into the second quarter.
Yet he didn't draw a whistle in 11 second-half minutes and still was a factor defensively. His plus/minus tells the story: plus-12, just a tick behind Rondo.
"Rasheed was amazing tonight," said Rivers. "Energy and rebounding -- he did so many of the little things."
If not for Rondo's efforts (29 points, 18 rebounds, 13 assists), Allen might have been all the rage after Sunday's game for his dogged effort in both guarding James and providing a punch on offense. Essentially, he did what Pierce has been unable to do.
Consider that for a moment. As Boston's captain struggles at both ends of the court, it's Allen -- a tantalizing enigma during his six seasons in Boston -- who finally seems to have put it together. He expends full effort on defense now, yet still finds a way to get involved on offense, often racing to the basket on breaks and being rewarded with layups.
"Tony Allen may have been the biggest reason we won, after Rondo," said Rivers, offering a quote that couldn't have been fathomed before the season, when Allen aggravated an ankle injury and missed the start of the campaign.BOSTON -- The NBA's great shooters never believe the problem lies with them. When shots aren't falling, they would sooner challenge whether the rim is straight before they doubt themselves.
So even after missing his first 12 attempts to open Tuesday's Game 3 against the Lakers, Celtics guard Ray Allen was certain No. 13 would drop.
With his team trailing by four with less than a minute to play, Allen pulled up from the left corner. It felt good off the hand, but it clanged off the rim like his previous attempts. Allen finished with two points, four rebounds and two assists in more than 42 minutes.
The Lakers hung on for a 91-84 triumph at the TD Garden that gave them a 2-1 series lead.
Two days after seemingly being unable to miss while setting a Finals record with eight trifectas -- the first seven of which came in a row -- in Boston's Game 2 win in Los Angeles, Allen nearly etched his name on a far more dubious distinction Tuesday.
Allen's 0-for-13 performance ranked as the second-worst oh-fer in Finals history, falling one miss short of the record of 0-for-14 shared by Seattle's Dennis Johnson in 1978 and Baltimore's Chick Reiser in 1948.
Allen missed all eight 3-pointers he attempted and a trio of bunnies. He missed five shots in the first quarter, six in the third and two more in the fourth.
How bad was Tuesday's performance? Allen had never endured anything even close. His previous high for consecutive missed field goals was nine on Jan. 4, 2008. You'd have to go all the way back to April 4, 1999 (8) or Feb. 26, 1997 (7) to find his other career lows.
"I just know the game doesn't owe anything to anybody," Allen said. "I can't just think that it's always supposed to be the way I want it to be. You gotta make your own breaks at both ends of the floor. Offensively, you have to find ways to get over the hump. Every game, every day, you gotta get out there and get your rhythm and work on your shot. Try to improve it."
But how do you improve on near perfection? Two days ago, the Celtics had to hose Allen down before he boarded the team bus, otherwise the seats would've been liable to catch fire.
On Tuesday, he was so cold the Celtics' training staff should have left an extra pair of socks in his locker stall.
"That's why you always have to be humble," Allen said. "When things go great, it's good to be a part of. You have to be sure to make good decisions. Moving forward, you have to continue to work on things you need to work on to be good in the future. Preparation is the biggest key.
"But I never hang my head. [Wednesday] is another opportunity to get right back on track. I gotta take my hat off to them. They took away a lot of the open, easier looks that I had from last time."
Celtics coach Doc Rivers didn't profess to have many answers as to how or why Allen could bounce from one extreme to the other, but admitted that he just looked off Tuesday.There was a time when Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge was roundly booed by Boston fans -- in the middle of a ceremony to honor his former teammate Cedric Maxwell. Five years later, after he delivered a championship, he was toasted by those same fans as the boldest general manager in the game.
In between, Ainge traded 35 players and 11 draft picks.
He sent Antoine Walker packing in 2003, then reacquired him in 2005, neither of which seemed like a particularly good idea at the time. He traded for such immortals as Raef LaFrentz, Ricky Davis, Jiri Welsch and Chris Mihm, yet eventually parlayed them into new players and more draft picks that helped the Celtics win.
"He runs his basketball team the same way he used to play -- he lets it fly,'' asserts Indiana Pacers president Larry Bird. "It's always all out with Danny.''
Since the Celtics' title run in 2008, Ainge has swapped out 10 players and one draft pick.
As the Celtics stagger toward the finish line of the regular season, Ainge's controversial decision to deal the popular Kendrick Perkins to Oklahoma City as well as introduce five new players to the mix has the boobirds warming up their vocal cords again. Team chemistry has clearly suffered, the Big Four is underperforming, and after an initial burst of spirited play, center Nenad Krstic has slipped into the lackluster play that made him expendable in Oklahoma City in the first place.
With home-court advantage seemingly slipping away and Boston having lost three of the past four (and seven of 12), its front-office guru is once again under scrutiny.
Ainge isn't flinching. Although he concedes it was excruciating to deal Perkins -- "I love that kid; I raised him'' -- he still believes the trade made sense in both the short and long term.
During a lengthy interview last week, Ainge acknowledged a number of factors led him to move Perkins, among them the fact he was recovering from major knee surgery, had two balky shoulders and had suffered an injury to the other knee. The center's limited offensive capabilities (and a maddening tendency to drop pinpoint passes from Rajon Rondo) contributed to his departure, but the most obvious unresolved issue was his intent to test free agency this summer.
Would the Celtics have pulled the trigger on the deal if Perkins had agreed to the four-year, $22 million extension they offered him earlier in the season?
"Probably not,'' Ainge answered, "but in fairness to Perk, the only extension we could offer him was not fair market value. I understood why he didn't take that. And, I had a strong feeling talking with a few teams that three in particular were going to make a strong bid for Perk and there was a real possibility that it could have ended up in a bidding war that we weren't going to win.''
One of those three teams was Oklahoma City; shortly after acquiring him the Thunder inked him to a four-year, nearly $36 million contract.
Perkins missed the first three weeks with the Thunder because of the aforementioned knee injury.
"That's the ironic thing,'' Ainge wryly noted. "Everyone was worrying about Shaq [O'Neal] and [Jermaine O'Neal's] health, but we wouldn't have had Perk available either.
"Look. Perk isn't Perk right now. I think he will be back to his old self by next year. I think he will be fine. I want him to be. But the truth was we were playing much better with Shaq as a starter this year than at any time with Perk.''
Counting on Shaq
It's no coincidence that Rondo's assist totals were up around 15 a game when the Big Shamrock was on the floor. His dominating presence on the block forced teams to abandon the double-team on Paul Pierce and/or Kevin Garnett for fear of leaving the big fella alone for a rim-rattling dunk.
Shaq last played on Feb. 1. A nagging Achilles injury has become a chronic Achilles problem. A recent walk-through, which was supposed to be the precursor to O'Neal's return, instead resulted in inflaming the Achilles so significantly that he received a cortisone shot and was put in a boot to immobilize the foot.
With the season ticking down, Shaq's status becomes a major factor in Boston's hopes for a title run. Jermaine O'Neal hopes to return by the end of this week, but if neither big man can play sustained minutes, was the Perkins deal a bust?
"I don't think so,'' Ainge answered. "We believe we will have both Shaq and J.O. back. Now if they don't, and Krstic can't play at the high level he was performing at when he arrived, obviously we won't have the kind of depth we want, but our recent struggles have nothing to do with the center position.''
GMs split on Perk trade
An informal sampling of NBA general managers revealed them split on the Perkins trade. A couple expressed doubts over a plan that relies on a 39-year-old and a 32-year-old to fill the center needs, particularly with their injury history. Another felt the Celtics have lost an identity -- toughness -- they won't recoup with Perkins gone. Yet others, like Bird, endorsed the move.
Perkins, who signed a 4-year, nearly $36 million contract with the Thunder shortly after the trade, missed the first three weeks with his new team due to a knee injury. Ned Dishman/NBAE/Getty Images
"I'm a big Jeff Green fan,'' Bird said. "It was a chance for Boston to look long-term and still keep themselves in it for this year.''
Nets general manager Billy King, who nabbed Deron Williams at the trade deadline, said the changing landscape of the Eastern Conference may have played into Ainge's thinking.
"I think maybe the way Danny was looking at it is there is only one big center to deal with in the East and that's Dwight Howard,'' said King. "But now you've got to worry about LeBron [James] and Carmelo [Anthony], guys who are hard to guard, and that's where Jeff Green comes in.
"It also lets the Celtics go small with Green in the lineup, which they like to do," added King. "Danny probably figures he can win it this year with the Big Three and Rondo, and rebuild on the fly without damaging the core.''
Rolling the dice
Ainge doesn't view the Perkins swap and the subsequent salary dumps as the riskiest moves of his Celtics tenure.
He anointed the June 29, 2007 deal with Seattle in which he traded Delonte West, Wally Szczerbiak and the No. 5 overall pick in the draft (which, ironically, turned out to be Jeff Green) for Ray Allen and the No. 35 pick (Glen Davis) as the transaction he considered the most perilous.
At the time, Allen was coming off double ankle surgery and was one month shy of his 32nd birthday.
"I loved Ray's character, but at the time the KG trade wasn't a guarantee, and I was worried about Ray's health,'' Ainge admitted. "We were giving up a No. 5 pick to get an older player.
"It was risky, but I felt it was worthwhile. Even if we ended up with Ray Allen and Paul Pierce and Al Jefferson, it might have not been what I hoped for, but I still wouldn't have regretted it. We needed Ray to have any chance at KG.''
Ainge's ability to pry Kevin Garnett free from the Timberwolves remains the crowning achievement of his front office career. Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE/Getty Images
Ainge's ability to pry Garnett free from the Timberwolves remains the crowning achievement of his front-office career. Although many have dismissed that transaction as one close friend (former Timberwolves GM Kevin McHale) aiding another, Boston was not the only team in the hunt for KG. The Lakers and the Phoenix Suns were in hot pursuit and Indiana was also interested.
"I was shocked when I heard Danny got KG,'' Bird said. "I called McHale every year about him and he always told me he wouldn't trade him.''
McHale ultimately received the go-ahead from owner Glen Taylor, who didn't want to pay KG a lucrative extension. The Suns weren't willing to pay him and the Lakers offered Andrew Bynum, "but Bynum wasn't healthy or producing nearly the way Al Jefferson was at the time," Ainge said.
"Relationships in trading do make a difference,'' he added. "You have to be able to talk, be open and honest. It's back and forth and back and forth and back and forth. The fact there is a relationship enables you to keep going.
"But Kevin McHale did not trade Kevin Garnett to me because we're friends. Kevin is a Celtic and will always be a Celtic, but when he was working for the Minnesota Timberwolves that didn't matter. I can tell you for sure there was no way Kevin was rooting for us to win a championship with his former player.''
Ainge was on the flip side of that equation when he helped deliver a championship to the Detroit Pistons by handing them Rasheed Wallace in a three-way deal with Atlanta in February of 2004.
"I knew if I traded Rasheed to them they could win it all,'' Ainge said. "I didn't care because it had nothing to do with us.''
At the time, Ainge explained, the Celtics weren't competitive enough for Wallace to consider re-upping with them. He was looking to sign with either New Jersey or New York, two teams in Boston's division.
"I could make two teams in my division a lot better and get nothing, or I could move him to Detroit and I could get a first-round pick,'' Ainge said. "We ended up getting Tony Allen with that pick. Sheed ended up helping them win a championship, and Tony ended up helping us win one.''Back in the final week of the 2007-08 season, the people in the NBA office who oversee playoff scheduling nearly had a collective coronary.
There were four teams within a game of each other vying for the top spot in the Western Conference. What should have been an exhilarating push over the final few games to determine a conference champion was instead turning into a potential nightmare.
Three of the teams were in the Southwest Division: Houston, New Orleans and the defending champion San Antonio Spurs. If those three teams ended in a tie, the league's tiebreaker formula would kick in and give the division title to the Hornets. But that wasn't the problem. The problem was the fourth team, the Lakers.
If all four teams ended with the same record, which was entirely possible, then the Rockets would emerge as the tiebreaker winner. And there you had it: A team that could not win its division under one scenario emerged as the No. 1 seed in the conference under another scenario. The league did not want that to happen.
Luckily, the Lakers won out and secured the best record in the conference by a game over the Spurs and Hornets and by two games over the Rockets. But the matter moved the NBA to institute a minor wrinkle in the tiebreaking formula for the following season, 2008-09: If a division winner finished with the same record as a non-division winner, then the division winner would automatically receive the higher seed. Head-to-head results from the regular season would not matter.
"We added division winner as the first tiebreaker in an effort to provide a larger benefit to capturing a division title," explained league spokesman Tim Frank.
The board of governors approved the change, but there was no announcement from the league. The new wrinkle factored into the playoff seedings last season, when the Southwest Division-winning Spurs were awarded the third seed over the Blazers. The two teams had identical records and Portland had a 3-1 edge in the season series, but San Antonio got the nod by virtue of being a division champion. The rule has been thrust into the spotlight again this season as the Celtics and Hawks go into the final nine games with the same record (47-26).
Simply put, if Boston and Atlanta finish the season with identical records, the Celtics will receive the higher seed (most likely the No. 3) even though they lost all four regular-season games to the Hawks. That is because they will be champions of a division (the NBA's Hindenburg) while the Hawks will not, losing out to Orlando.
"I don't understand that at all," said ESPN analyst Jon Barry. "Why wouldn't head-to-head be No. 1? There's no fairer barometer than head-to-head. It doesn't seem right. I'm shocked. The Celtics are in a terrible division, which they're going to win. But realistically, what does a division title mean anyway?"
Here's what it means: a better seed, with possibly huge implications in the playoffs.
Should the Hawks and Celtics finish with the same record behind Cleveland (duh!) and Orlando (all but a lock), then the Celtics would get the third seed and Atlanta the fourth seed. Not only does that give Boston a (theoretically) easier opponent in the first round -- say Miami or Charlotte instead of Milwaukee -- it also takes the Celtics out of the Cavaliers' bracket until the conference finals. So should the Celtics and Hawks both prevail in their first-round series, the Hawks would then draw the Cavs in the second round. The Celtics would be in line to meet the Magic, assuming everything goes according to Hoyle.
Ever since the NBA went to six divisions in 2004, it has wrestled with possible injustices and inequities in the postseason. The league at first gave the top three seeds to the division champion, regardless of record. That blew up in 2006, when the Mavericks finished with the second-best record in the conference but were given a No. 4 seed, even though they won 16 games more than Denver, a division winner. Dallas thus had to play a 49-win Memphis team in the first round while Denver got the 47-win Clippers. Los Angeles, however, received home-court and dispatched the Nuggets in five games, the franchise's sole playoff win since it moved west from Buffalo in 1978.
Dallas and San Antonio then met in the second round, even though they were the two best teams in the conference over the regular season. (The Mavs prevailed in seven games.) To fix that, the NBA decided to seed the top four teams according to record, regardless of whether the team won its division.
There was peace and quiet on the playoff front after that change. In 2007, the Cavs finished behind Detroit in the Central Division, but, with 50 wins, had the second-best record in the East. Cleveland got the No. 2 seed. No one complained. There was the aforementioned scare in 2008, which resolved itself, but which also brought the new change to 2009. We are now seeing that change play a role in 2010.
Both teams have six possible playoff opponents in their remaining nine games. Atlanta has two games against the Cavs and a home game against the Lakers. The Celtics have two Western Conference teams this week (the Thunder and Rockets), as well as a home game with the Cavs and two games with Milwaukee.
It will all be moot if they don't finish with the same record. But if they do? You wonder how the Hawks are going to feel after what they did to the Celtics this season.
Longtime Celtics reporter Peter May is a frequent contributor to ESPNBoston.com.ORLANDO, Fla. -- Boston center Glen Davis was diagnosed with a concussion after being shaken up late in the third quarter of Game 5 of the Eastern Conference finals, needing to be held up by referee Joey Crawford to keep from falling.
Celtics reserve Marquis Daniels also suffered a concussion, leaving the game early in the fourth quarter of the 113-92 loss to the Magic.
Davis was struck in face by Orlando center Dwight Howard's elbow, tumbling to the court as play went the other way. Davis tried to get up, only to fall again, and then was clearly dazed when he got to his feet.
He took a few more steps, then staggered toward Crawford, who wrapped his arms around Davis to keep him upright as play stopped with 9.7 seconds left in the period. Davis was tended to on the court for a few minutes, then walked to the Celtics' bench and eventually toward the locker room for evaluation. The hit also dislodged at least one of Davis' teeth.
"Never want to see anybody, especially a friend, go down like that," Howard said.
Davis finished with four points and one rebound over 19 minutes.
Celtics coach Doc Rivers said Davis "blacked out" on the court, and the training staff will examine the forward Thursday.
"I don't know what kind of tests they're going to do with Baby. He's a little delirious anyway," Rivers said, chuckling.
When the Celtics' locker room opened following the loss the mood was glum. A series that once looked like a Boston runaway might be running away from the Celtics.
"Point blank. I ain't speaking. I'm all right. I'll be back next game," Davis said, marching through a parting wall of reporters huddled around his stall in the locker room, then shouting an expletive. "That's all you need to print."
Daniels -- like Davis -- was briefly unconscious in the second half.
Daniels got hit in the face while attempting to pass the ball (he was instead called for traveling) and was also diagnosed with a concussion. The little-used Daniels logged three minutes because of the rash of injuries and foul trouble.
"He ain't talking," Boston backup Nate Robinson said after the game, shooing reporters away from Daniels' locker.
Information from The Associated Press and ESPNBoston.com's Chris Forsberg was used in this report.The Boston Celtics signed first-round draft pick Avery Bradley on Friday.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but the 2010-11 rookie scale suggests Bradley will earn $1.18 million in his first season. The scale escalates in years 2 ($1.27 million) and 3 ($1.36 million) before options kick in.
Bradley, who injured his left ankle while working out for Oklahoma City on June 13, saw his draft stock slide a bit and fell to the Celtics at No. 19. He will require a scope on the ankle and be sidelined for about six weeks as he recovers.
"As of right now, I'm just looking to get back and get ready so I can start training camp," Bradley said last week when he was introduced at the team's practice facility in Waltham.
The 6-foot-2 guard averaged 11.6 points, 2.1 assists, and 1.3 steals per game last season at Texas, while being named to the Big 12 All-Freshman team.
Chris Forsberg covers the Celtics for ESPNBoston.comMEMPHIS, Tenn. -- Grizzlies guard Tony Allen said Friday he's ready to bring defensive toughness and championship experience to his new team as it guns for the playoffs this season.
Allen signed a multiyear contract with the Grizzlies two weeks ago, leaving the Eastern Conference champion Boston Celtics after six seasons. He appeared in two NBA Finals against the Lakers, winning the title in 2008 and losing this past season.
Allen has averaged 7.2 points per game and 1.04 steals per game in his career. The 6-foot-4 guard is valued for his ability to cover the other team's best player.
Last season playoffs saw Allen defend Kobe Bryant, Vince Carter and Dwyane Wade.
"I'm definitely going to try to start early defining a role, try to bring some sort of toughness to the ballclub," Allen said. "It's obvious I have experience and I'm just looking forward to just letting that marinate amongst the players that's in this locker room."
Allen joins a young team with a crowded backcourt. O.J. Mayo and Mike Conley are projected as starters, with Allen, Sam Young and first round picks Greivis Vasquez and Xavier Henry as possible contributors.
Allen, who was drafted by Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace when Wallace was with Boston, says he considers his arrival in Memphis as a fresh start.
"Being in Boston I was kind of overshadowed by those guys, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen," Allen said. "Here's a ballclub who's on the rise and a lot of guys can make names for themselves. It's a coming out party for a lot of guys on this team."
Grizzlies owner Michael Heisley has said he expects the team to make the playoffs. Last season, the once-woeful Grizzlies fell short of their first .500 season since 2006 and posted the second best improvement in wins behind Oklahoma City.
As a Celtic, Allen said he learned the importance of togetherness, a theme that Boston coach Doc Rivers preached throughout the playoffs.
Allen said Rivers pulled him aside in training camp and told him he was expected to be a defensive stopper. He expects to fill the same role with the Grizzlies, while also helping on offense.
"I don't mind embracing the role, but there is more to my game. Let's not get that twisted," Allen said. "Whatever I could do to win ballgames. If that's just passing out Gatorades or flashing towels or giving somebody a high five, I'm willing to do that."BOSTON -- With a pair of first-quarter 3-pointers, Boston Celtics guard Ray Allen matched and eclipsed Reggie Miller's NBA record of 2,560 career 3-pointers Thursday night against the Los Angeles Lakers.
Allen took a feed from Garnett and got off the record-tying shot before Derek Fisher could rush out to defend with 4:13 remaining in the first quarter. Allen nearly assumed sole possession of the record a moment later in transition, but a 3-pointer from the left side of the arc wouldn't fall.
A short time later, with 1:48 to go in the first quarter, he buried No. 2,561 from nearly the same spot as the tying shot. Allen got a wide-open look and buried the triple to establish the NBA mark.
Between the first and second quarters, the moment was recognized in TD Garden and the crowd serenaded Allen with a prolonged standing ovation. After acknowledging the crowd, Allen went over to greet Miller, sitting courtside as an analyst for TNT, before greeting his mother, Flo, and his wife and children.
"What I thought about is: 'Is it really going to happen?' " said Allen after the game. "I know I only needed two 3s, and on any other day, any other game, it seems like it would happen just like that. I wouldn't have to think about it. But that second three, it seemed like it was slow motion for me, because I saw the whole thing develop.
"As I've gotten older, I play the game and I can see it, somewhat in a second motion so to speak. Where the ball kind of comes slow, like somebody is slow-motioning on TV. That's exactly how it felt, because the minute we got the stop and [Rajon] Rondo got the ball, in my mind it just started, and I just said to myself, 'This is it.' "ORLANDO, Fla. -- Shaquille O'Neal, the man with four rings, 28,596 career points and scores of nicknames, has finally decided to call it quits, ending one of the most colorful careers in NBA history that will surely culminate with a Hall of Fame induction.
"I'm going to miss the competition. I'm going to miss, you know, the chase for the ring. You know, I'm actually going to miss everything," O'Neal said on "SportsCenter" on Wednesday.
He added: "Father Time has caught up with Shaquille O'Neal."
O'Neal, 39, revealed his retirement earlier Wednesday using the new social media tool Tout, a real-time video messaging service, to announce to fans:
"We did it. Nineteen years baby. I want to thank you very much, that's why I'm telling you first, I'm about to retire. Love you, talk to you soon."
"Once a businesman, always a businessman," O'Neal said with a smile later Wednesday. "I am the emperor of the social media network."
An inveterate prankster who gave himself a new nickname -- or several -- in each of his six NBA cities, O'Neal said he wasn't prepared yet to reminisce about his long and prolific career, which produced three championships with the Los Angeles Lakers and one with the Miami Heat. "Let's save that for the press conference on Friday," said O'Neal, who will hold that media event at his Isleworth home.
Celtics spokesman Jeff Twiss says that O'Neal has not notified the team of his plans.
"It was a pleasure to play with the Big Fella," Celtics teammate Kevin Garnett through a statement released by his management company. "It was most definitely a life experience. My big brother from a different mother. It's love all day and I wish him nothing but the best. The game's gonna miss you. Look out world, here comes Shaq."
"He's a giant," commissioner David Stern said Wednesday at the NBA Finals in Miami. "He's physically imposing; he has an imposing smile. In the game, he imposed his will, and he has done it for quite a long time. It's been a great run here, and we're going to miss him greatly. We hope we can find ways to keep him involved in the game."
Stern added later in a statement: "On behalf of the NBA, its teams, and his millions of fans around the world, I want to thank Shaq for everything he has meant to the league and to the sport of basketball, both on and off the court. We wish him and his family all the best."
O'Neal retires fifth all-time with 28,596 points, 12th with 13,099 rebounds and second only to Artis Gilmore among players with more than 2,000 baskets with a .582 field goal percentage.
"I'm a little bit sad," said Pat Riley, the Heat president who was also the coach in 2006 when O'Neal won a title in Miami. "It's the end of an absolute 20-year career. Great, great player. ... The league's going to miss Shaq. I'm sure Shaq will do something big and beyond."
LeBron James tweeted: "What a career for Shaq Diesel!! The most dominating force to ever play the game. Great person to be around as well. Comedy all the time!!"
O'Neal, who's a shoo-in for the Hall of Fame, said he isn't sure which team he'll enter under.
"I'm a humble and modest person so hopefully I get inducted. Let's just start there first," O'Neal said on "SportsCenter." He added, "We'll just have to wait 'til that happens, and then I'll make that decision."
At each stop, he endeared himself to the fans and his new teammates with his effervescent smile and playful attitude, including the habit of adopting a new nickname he felt embodied his role with his new team. In Phoenix he was the "Big Shaqtus"; in Boston, the "Big Shamroq."
O'Neal signed a two-year contract with the Boston Celtics last summer but a persistent Achilles injury will prevent him from fulfilling the terms of the deal. O'Neal first injured his right Achilles on Christmas Day and was able to play in only two of the final 35 games of the regular season.
On April 3 against Detroit, O'Neal returned to the court after a two-month absence and scored six points in a spirited 5 minutes and 29 seconds before coming up lame and limping off the floor. Although his injury was listed as a strained calf, O'Neal said it was the Achilles flaring up again.
"I felt like someone had shot me in the back of my leg," he said.
Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant celebrate the Lakers' third consecutive title in 2002. Matt Campbell/AFP/Getty Images
O'Neal did not play again in the regular season. He sat out the first-round playoff series against the New York Knicks, then tried to return in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference semifinals against his old team, the Heat. O'Neal logged 8½ minutes in the 97-81 victory but woke up in considerable pain the next morning. His final game was two days later, when he toiled for three minutes of Game 4 before Celtics coach Doc Rivers pulled him for good.
In the final weeks of the the playoffs, O'Neal, over the objections of team physician Brian McKeon, had "more than five" cortisone shots in his Achilles in an attempt to play against the Heat.
"Doc (McKeon) kept telling me, 'No, no,' but I wanted to play so badly," O'Neal said. "My feeling was, 'If it ruptures, it ruptures.' The Celtics were so good to me I wanted to do everything I could to get back on the court for them."
Throughout his time on the sideline, O'Neal said, he continued to do rehab as well as work on the treadmill and the exercise bike. He swam each evening at the Thoreau Club in Concord and shot a number of late-night free throws at the Lincoln-Sudbury High School gymnasium across the street from his rented Sudbury home. He lost 35 pounds and was "feeling great everywhere except for that one little spot behind my heel."
O'Neal said McKeon recommended surgery that would "clean up" the area around the Achilles, but O'Neal said the recovery time would be close to nine months.
"I really, really thought about coming back," he said, "but this Achilles is very damaged and if I had it done the recovery would be so long we'd have same outcome as this last year -- everyone sitting around and waiting for me.
"I didn't want to let people down two years in a row. I didn't want to hold Boston hostage again.
"I'm letting everybody know now so Danny (Ainge) and the organization can try to get younger talent. I would love to come back, but they say once the Achilles is damaged it's never the same. I don't want to take that chance."
O'Neal said his final months in Boston included some of the darkest days of his career because "I just hated to let the city of Boston down. I really grew to love the place. Everyone was so welcoming to me and treated me so great. They believed in me and they took care of me, especially the great people of Sudbury. I love that town."BOSTON -- Celtics rookie center Vitor Faverani underwent season-ending knee surgery Friday, the team announced.
Faverani, sidelined since early February with swelling in his knee, had left knee arthroscopy to repair a torn lateral meniscus at New England Baptist Hospital. The procedure was performed by Celtics team physician Dr. Brian McKeon and assisted by Jason Rand, PAC.
Celtics coach Brad Stevens said what was planned as a simple scope soon turned into a pretty major repair.
"When they went in and scoped his knee, they found a meniscus tear," Stevens said. "The way it was explained to me, it was near the root. That was the source of his major discomfort the past couple weeks. And so, it's going to be a pretty significant rehab and so that was obviously not good news."
Faverani averaged 4.4 points and 3.5 rebounds over 13.2 minutes per game spanning 37 appearances during his rookie season. The Brazilian import started fast in his rookie season, but playing time diminished and he spent time bouncing between the Celtics and Maine Red Claws of the D-League. He was on assignment with the Claws when he suffered the knee injury on Feb. 4 in Delaware. With Maine, Faverani averaged 12.8 points and 9 rebounds over 25 minutes per contest in four appearances.
"He's obviously had some up moments, had some down moments, like a lot of rookies," Stevens said. "He's a guy that, to be the very best that he can be, just continues to work and he has a good work ethic for scoring on the block and also refining his jump shot, which he does work really hard on.
"On the other end of the floor, anybody with that size, you need him to protect the rim as well as he possibly can. And he really had some good moments doing that, and he had other moments when he didn't do it as well. I think it's just going to be a process of growth with him and getting better at that. And hopefully he gets healthy so he can work on some of the things that will help him do that better."
Faverani's surgery comes on the heels of veteran Gerald Wallace undergoing season-ending surgery for his own torn meniscus on Tuesday.
Faverani is under contract for two more seasons, the final of which is nonguaranteed. The Celtics used a portion of their midlevel exception to sign the 25-year-old big man last summer.BOSTON -- The Celtics selected Oklahoma State point guard Marcus Smart with the sixth overall pick in the 2014 NBA draft Thursday night and later added shooting guard James Young out of Kentucky at No. 17.
"First of all, we're very pleased that we were able to get these two guys where we got them," Celtics coach Brad Stevens said. "When you look at the draft, going into tonight, I had both of these guys in my top 11. At the end of the day, you can feel really good about that."
At 6-foot-3, 227 pounds, Smart owns an NBA-ready body and is known for being a physical presence at both ends of the floor. He can play off the ball but spent his sophomore season at Oklahoma State establishing himself as a point guard.
At the NBA draft combine in Chicago last month, Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge said he liked Smart's fire, even after he was suspended three games for a fan-shoving incident.
"I sorta like Marcus Smart. I like his fire," Ainge said. Later, Ainge added: "I think he's a great kid, a great player and I think he'll have a bright future."
Boston worked out Smart twice, including as part of a guard-heavy session earlier this month. He was brought back this week to audition again.
Celtics owner Wyc Grousbeck said there was applause in the team's draft war room when it became clear Smart would be available at No. 6.
"Our war room is very happy with our pick," Grousbeck said. "My job is to be part of that and to be supportive. Our basketball guys are very excited and have been focusing on Marcus for several weeks. We really liked the top six or seven kids in the draft quite a bit, but I really thought he's pretty exceptional in a couple of ways and am really looking forward to having him."The Boston Celtics have sent recently acquired big man Brandan Wright to Phoenix for a protected first-round draft pick that initially belonged to the Minnesota Timberwolves, the Suns announced Friday.
The pick is protected within the first 12 selections for the next two seasons and then turns into a pair of second-rounders in 2016 and '17. Boston also created a trade exception worth $5 million in the process by sending out Wright's $5 million contract while taking back no salary.
"I have known Brandan since he entered the NBA in 2007," Suns president of basketball operations Lon Babby said. "He is a person of the highest character who will fit perfectly into our burgeoning Suns culture. We look forward to welcoming him to Phoenix."
In a separate move, the Celtics are in the process of agreeing to terms on a trade that will send forward Jeff Green to the Memphis Grizzlies in exchange for Tayshaun Prince's $7.7 million expiring contract and another future first-round pick. Green was held out of the Celtics' 107-103 overtime loss to the Indiana Pacers on Friday night.
Wright was brought to Boston via the deal that sent Rajon Rondo to Dallas. He gives Phoenix a quality backup center. The Suns lost 100-95 to the San Antonio Spurs on Friday night.
Brandan Wright gives depth to the Suns inside. AP Photo/Alan Diaz
The former eighth overall pick is averaging 7.5 points on 72.4 percent shooting, 3.6 rebounds and 1.3 blocks in 35 games between the Celtics and Mavs this season.
"The way Dallas played last year is somewhat similar to what we play -- being in the open court and pick-and-rolls," Suns coach Jeff Hornacek said. "Brandan does a great job of rolling to the basket and catching the ball and either dunking it or he's got a little jumper, so he can shoot it."
In a corresponding move, Phoenix waved forward Tony Mitchell.
News of the trade was reported earlier by Yahoo! Sports.
Information from ESPN.com's Marc Stein and The Associated Press was used in this report.The Boston Celtics have agreed to a two-year, $24 million contract with free-agent forward Amir Johnson, sources told ESPN.com.
Quiet amid the early chaos in free agency, the Celtics joined the fray by nabbing the 28-year-old forward who averaged 9.3 points and 6.1 rebounds over 26.4 minutes per game last season. He shot 57.4 percent from the field and made 41.3 percent of his 3-point attempts.
The 6-foot-9 Johnson becomes the Celtics' highest-paid player, bumping aside veteran Gerald Wallace and his $10.1 million salary.
Johnson became a free agent after completing his sixth season with the Toronto Raptors. His best season in Toronto came in 2012-13, when he averaged 10 points, 7.5 rebounds and 1.4 blocks.
After losing in the first round for the second straight season, the Raptors had some decisions to make about their roster with Johnson as one of six free agents. Johnson had hoped general manager Masai Ujiri would keep the team's core intact.
"I've been with this team for six years now," Johnson said at the end of the Raptors' season, according to the Toronto Star. "I've seen the ups and downs of the team, and I really like where we are now, compared with the past. It just takes time. I feel like we have the chance to do something special.
"Keep a team together and they grow together, they get better. So I hope everyone comes back."
ESPN.com's Ohm Youngmisuk contributed to this report.Boston Celtics second-round draft pick E'Twaun Moore has officially signed a deal with Benetton Treviso of Italy's Lega Serie A, according to his agent.
The deal is for one year at $200,000, according to ESPN The Magazine's Ric Bucher.
Moore's deal includes the much-coveted opt-out clause that will allow him to return stateside should the NBA lockout end during Treviso's season.
"It's a great situation for E'Twaun," Moore's agent, Mark Bartelstein, said. "Treviso is a terrific team that plays top European competition and, if the lockout ends, there's an option to terminate the contract -- a small window of time -- so we'll just see what happens.The Boston Celtics announced Saturday that forward Jeff Green will undergo heart surgery next month and will miss the entire 2011-12 season.
A routine physical administered after Green agreed to a one-year, $9 million contract with the Celtics last week detected an aortic aneurysm.
After consulting with leading cardiac specialists, the decision was made to completely repair Green's condition, and doctors indicated to him that he should be able to resume his basketball career during the 2012-13 season.
"While we are saddened that Jeff will not be able to play this season, the most important thing is his health, and we were fortunate to have access to an amazing team of specialists to evaluate Jeff's case," Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge said. "The entire Celtics family supports Jeff during this difficult time in his career."
In detailing the condition, Dr. Michael Kaplan, a senior medical correspondent for ESPN, stressed that the rupture of the aorta could be catastrophic. He said that surgery is still a major procedure, but Green, 25, indeed could resume his basketball career down the road.
"An aortic aneurysm is a condition where the abdominal aorta, which is the largest blood vessel in the body, has a dilation, meaning the wall of the blood vessel thins and then balloons out," said Kaplan, who is not involved in Green's treatment. "It's more typical in older individuals with some sort of blood vessel disease, but we see it occasionally with people as young as Jeff, usually from other conditions."
Kaplan said that the condition could be congenital, or the result of another disease process such as Marfan syndrome.
Green's contract has been voided because of the failed physical, but the Celtics retain their rights to him when he returns.Kevin Garnett is returning to the Boston Celtics after considering retirement, multiple sources told ESPN.
The forward will receive a three-year, $34 million deal, the sources said.
"The decision came down to whether KG wanted to keep playing," a source told the Boston Herald. "And once he decided that he did, it was going to be Boston. He wasn't going to leave Doc (Rivers) and those guys and play anywhere else."
The 36-year old Garnett just completed his fifth season in Boston after 12 years in Minnesota. He averaged 15.8 points and 8.2 rebounds per game during the regular season, but upped his averages to 19.2 and 10.3 in the playoffs.
The Celtics have one other big name heading into free agency in shooting guard Ray Allen. While he has also expressed a desire to return to Boston, sources told ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst that the NBA champion Miami Heat have made Allen their primary offseason target.
Forwards Jeff Green and Brandon Bass are also slated for free agency.
While the timing of Garnett's deal helps the Celtics sort out their free agent plans, the reported average annual value of the deal gives Boston more salary cap room to work with. Garnett made $21 million last season, but both parties needed to account for Garnett's higher age and lower expectations, while allowing for Garnett's importance to the team's immediate future.
Boston can use the remaining cap space to retain their key free agents or lure players outside the organization. However, if the Celtics choose to avoid paying the luxury tax, they will be allowed to use the full midlevel exception, which has been set at $5 million for the 2012-13 season.
That exception could be used for someone like Memphis Grizzlies guard O.J. Mayo. The Celtics reportedly nearly dealt Allen at the trade deadline for Mayo and Memphis did not extend Mayo a qualifying offer, making him an unrestricted free agent.
Garnett is in position to reach some notable NBA milestones. If he comes close to scoring 1,000 points during the 2012-13 season, he'll move into the top 15 on the NBA's all-time scoring list, surpassing the likes of Allen Iverson, Patrick Ewing and Jerry West. Similarly, if he grabs 500 rebounds next season, Garnett will vault into the top 10 in total rebounds in NBA history, moving past Hakeem Olajuwon and Wes Unseld.
Information from ESPNBoston.com's Celtics contributor Greg Payne contributed to this report.The Boston Celtics acquired free-agent shooting guard Courtney Lee in a sign-and-trade deal with the Houston Rockets that also included the Portland Trail Blazers, the Celtics announced Friday.
The Celtics are giving Lee a fully guaranteed four-year contract -- reported by Yahoo! Sports to be worth $21.5 million -- and trading away JaJuan Johnson, E'Twaun Moore, Sean Williams and a second-round pick to Houston. They also will ship Sasha Pavlovic, two second-round picks and cash considerations to Portland. The Blazers were added to the mix Thursday night in order to facilitate the deal and give Lee a higher salary.
"We are very excited that we were able to acquire Courtney Lee," Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge said. "Courtney brings a vast set of tools on both ends of the court and will be a great fit on our roster."
Based on the numbers reported by Yahoo! Sports, Lee is expected to make around $5 million in the first year of the deal.
Moore and Williams -- playing on nonguaranteed contracts -- are expected to be waived by the Rockets, the source said, but, per league rules, the Celtics cannot reclaim them for one year's time. Both are expected to go into the waiver pool once the deal is made official.
After losing Ray Allen to the Miami Heat and with Avery Bradley potentially sidelined for the start of the 2012-13 season after undergoing a pair of shoulder surgeries, the Celtics were in need of a front-line shooting guard. Lee will fill that role, allowing Jason Terry -- who officially was signed Wednesday for the mid-level exception -- to stay in his preferred sixth-man role.BOSTON -- Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers expressed disappointment in the departure of center Darko Milicic but admitted it was a bit of an unemotional separation because the team never got a chance to tap into his potential.
The Celtics waived Milicic on Wednesday after he requested his release in order to remain home with his ill mother in Serbia. The family issues, coupled with a non-existent role with Boston through 10 games this season, encouraged the 10-year veteran to step away from the NBA.
"It's pretty much unemotional because you never got a chance," Rivers said. "I'd liked to have had that opportunity, I thought we were building him. But you know how I feel about all the other stuff outside of basketball -- I think that's more important."
Rivers reaffirmed that the Celtics are in no rush to fill the roster spot and the team plans to leave rookie center Fab Melo in the D-League in order to get game experience. Melo can always be recalled in emergency situations, but the Celtics have depth, with Jason Collins having played sparingly this season.
"I haven't talked to (Celtics president of basketball operations) Danny (Ainge)," Rivers said. "Danny's out looking at college players, so that tells you how much of an urgency (filling the roster spot is) for us right now. We're not thinking about it at all; we haven't talked about it at all."
Rivers was asked how captain Paul Pierce is feeling after tweaking his ankle in Detroit on Sunday and retreating to the locker room with 98 seconds to play. Rivers playfully downplayed the severity of the injury.
"Did he sprain his ankle? No, we call that the 'ankle sprain because we may practice tomorrow' injury," Rivers said. "You know what I'm saying? That's what I thought it was, but he actually did.
"When he actually did sprain his ankle, I honestly thought, 'This is the I-can't-practice-tomorrow injury coming up.' And it actually happened to be an ankle. But he's OK."BOSTON -- Boston Celtics star point guard Rajon Rondo has a torn ACL in his right knee and will miss the remainder of the season.
The Celtics announced Rondo's injury during Sunday's 100-98 double-overtime victory against the Miami Heat, stating the four-time All-Star will undergo surgery.
The initial report was that Rondo had a hyperextended knee, but tests showed the ACL tear, an injury from which it usually takes up to a year to recover. A date for the surgery had not been scheduled as of Sunday afternoon, said team spokesman Brian Olive, who confirmed that Rondo's season is finished.
"Obviously the Rondo news is tough," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said after the game. "I knew before the game, but I didn't tell anyone. Obviously it was pretty emotional."
Rondo is expected to seek a second opinion to gauge his best route for recovery. He was chosen as the starting point guard for the Eastern Conference in the All-Star Game in Houston on Feb. 17.
Now the Celtics hope he can be ready for the start of next season.
"How far is that?" Rivers said. "I don't even know how long that is. Eight months? Nine months? So he'll probably be ready, but I don't know."
Celtics forward Kevin Garnett, Rondo's closest friend on the team, took the news hard.
"It was a big blow to everybody in here, me included," Garnett said. "Man, that hurt. It's tough. We had a tough game, came in, and he told the whole team in the locker room. It's tough, tough on everybody.Boston Celtics guard Leandro Barbosa sustained a non-contact left knee injury late in the third quarter of Monday's game against the Charlotte Bobcats according to the team, and the initial outlook is not encouraging.
Barbosa is expected to be reevaluated on Tuesday in Boston, but teammate Kevin Garnett suggested to reporters after the game that the injury could threaten Barbosa's season.
"It's tough, man. It's tough all the way around," Garnett said. "You work with these guys and all of a sudden you see a season-ending injury. We're grinding right now, on top of a back-to-back emotional game. Tonight was a very tough game."
Barbosa left the Celtics' locker room under his own power but limping, and declined to talk to reporters.
"L.B. was really starting to play great for us, so let's just hope he's OK," Celtics coach Doc Rivers told reporters in Charlotte. "It doesn't look great, but we'll see. We'll know more [Tuesday]."
Barbosa went to the ground in pain after planting awkwardly after a drive to the baseline. Teammate Fab Melo and team trainer Ed Lacerte carried Barbosa to the sideline and then to the locker room, the player apparently unable to put pressure on his injured leg.
Barbosa did not return to the game and iced his knee in the locker room.
The Celtics are already playing shorthanded after both Rajon Rondo (ACL) and Jared Sullinger (back) were lost for the season recently.LOS ANGELES -- The Boston Celtics acquired third-year guard Jordan Crawford from the Washington Wizards for guard Leandro Barbosa and center Jason Collins on Thursday.
Barbosa is out the remainder of the 2012-13 season after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his knee earlier this month. Crawford is expected to fill Barbosa's void on Boston's bench after falling out of favor in Washington.
Collins has averaged just more than 10 minutes per game for the Celtics this season, averaging 1.2 points and 1.6 rebounds per game. In initial reports, it appeared the deal would strictly be a Crawford-for-Barbosa swap. The inclusion of Collins became apparent just after the 3 p.m. trade deadline Thursday.
The 24-year-old Crawford, the 27th pick in the 2010 draft, has averaged 13.4 points, 3.1 assists and 2.7 rebounds over 26.2 minutes per game for his career. This season, he is averaging 13.2 points, 3.7 assists and 3.1 rebounds over 26.2 minutes per contest, starting 12 of Washington's 52 games. Since the return of John Wall from injury, Crawford's playing time has decreased.
"I know he can score and that's something we needed," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said of Crawford.
Rivers also is hopeful a veteran locker room and a winning atmosphere can bring the most out of Crawford.
"The good thing and the bad thing is his confidence," Rivers said. "You rarely say that, but it was tough for him there to buy into a role because he looks at himself and says, 'I'm better than them.' I'm hoping that we don't have that issue here. Obviously, if we do, then it'll be a problem."
Barbosa received increased playing time after Rajon Rondo tore his ACL in late January -- only to sustain the same season-ending injury less than three weeks later. Barbosa is waiting for an medial collateral ligament sprain to heal before undergoing surgery to repair the ACL injury.
"Losing Barbosa, I kept saying it, that's hurt us," added Rivers. "We don't have that wild card off the bench. And I'm hoping [Crawford] gives us that. I know about the other stuff, too. I'm hoping, obviously, that our staff and we have some veteran players around here, that he can grow."
Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge had previously expressed an interest in bringing Barbosa back next season.
Initial reports suggested the Celtics and Wizards were discussing a deal centered on a Crawford swap for rookie big man Fab Melo, but that never materialized. The Celtics view Melo as a long-term project. He has spent much of the season in the D-League but is traveling with Boston while providing emergency depth for an injury-depleted roster.
Collins is a bit of a surprise addition, especially given how thin Boston is up front. He had served as the first big off the bench, often spelling Kevin Garnett early, but that role will now likely fall to Chris Wilcox, while the Celtics will seemingly search the buyout scrapheap for a serviceable big man.
"That's part of the NBA," Collins said. "You're not just making a commitment, but you're making a commitment to yourself and then to the team and understand that there's a business side to the sport. It's not the first time I've been traded. Obviously, I understand everything that's involved in it."
The Wizards are getting two expiring contracts in Barbosa and Collins, who are set to become free agents this summer.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.In the final quarter of the Boston Celtics' season-ending Game 6 loss to the New York Knicks on Friday night at TD Garden, one improbable comeback came up short.
Another did not.
Boston, attempting to rally all the way back from a 3-0 series deficit and force a Game 7 in an Eastern Conference first-round series, trailed New York by as much as 26 with 9:49 to play on Friday night, and a furious final-frame rally couldn't prolong the Celtics' season.
But it was the play of third-year guard Avery Bradley during that feverish charge that provided maybe the biggest silver lining of the night for Boston. After a rather deplorable, confidence-shattering series, Bradley finished on an unexpected high note that restored some much-needed optimism about his play.
Avery Bradley ignited the Garden crowd with an inspired stretch that rallied the Celtics in Game 6. Jim Davis/The Boston Globe/Getty Images
While much of Boston's offseason focus will center on whether veterans like Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce return (or how the Celtics will overhaul their roster if they don't), it's just as important to monitor whether members of the team's young nucleus -- like Bradley and Jeff Green -- are capable of entrenching themselves as potential building blocks for the next iteration.
For the first 236 minutes of the Knicks series, it looked like Bradley would need summer-long therapy sessions to rebuild his confidence. Entering the fourth quarter of Game 6, Bradley had shot 34.2 percent (13 of 38) and -- scoreless Friday to that point -- had mustered a mere 15 points since Game 1.
His offensive woes had trickled into the defensive end, where the typically smothering Bradley struggled to slow Raymond Felton (maybe the Knicks' MVP of the first round). In fact, Bradley looked like a liability at times in Game 6, and when Doc Rivers yanked him early in the third quarter, Bradley was minus-22 in a game Boston trailed by 17 to that point.
Then the unimaginable occurred.
After Boston fell behind by 26 (its largest deficit of the night), Rivers reinserted Bradley for Jason Terry with 9:43 to play. Bradley got a hand up as J.R. Smith missed a 3-pointer and, at the other end of the floor, he came off a high screen from Brandon Bass and knocked down a 23-foot straightway jumper. With that, it was like a great weight had finally been lifted.
Soon after, Bradley swiped a bad pass by Smith and went the other way for a layup. Next trip down, he assisted on a Pierce 3-pointer. A minute later, another steal led to two free throws. Bradley's outburst culminated with yet another steal -- this one a straight midcourt rip of Carmelo Anthony -- and a breakaway two-handed jam that trimmed New York's lead to four with 3:32 remaining.
Bradley's line over the final 9:43 featured 10 points on 4-of-4 shooting with three steals and one assist. He was plus-18 overall in that time.
Asked about his part in the rally, Bradley offered, "Leaving everything out on the floor. ... I know me, personally, that's what I wanted to do."
Bradley's late-game efforts were quickly overshadowed by the uncertainty of what lies ahead for Boston. For much of the first-round series -- one in which a longtime New York Daily News scribe took to calling him "Average" Bradley -- it was fair to wonder if Bradley could handle the playoff stage.
Bradley led the NBA during the regular season by allowing a measly 0.697 points per play (among those with at least 475 total defensive possessions), according to Synergy Sports data. That number leapt to 0.919 points per play in the postseason. His offensive numbers (0.727 points per play) might have been even more of an eyesore.It says a little something about the type of player the Boston Celtics drafted when some of the first results of a YouTube search on Colton Iverson includes him breaking a rim and setting a bone-crunching screen.
The just-turned 24-year-old Iverson (Saturday was his birthday; and he celebrated with a Celtics-themed cake) is a 7-foot, 265-pound bruiser who comes with a reputation of reveling in the dirty work. He rebounds, he sets (hard) screens, he delivers hard fouls and he does it all with a relentless intensity.
Colton Iverson took a chance by transferring from Minnesota to Colorado State, but his hard work made the move pay off. AP Photo/Steven Senne
Ask those who have watched Iverson play and they'll tell you about his mean streak and toughness on the court. Looking at the South Dakota kid with a happy-to-be-here smile during Boston's rookie introductions on Monday, it seemed impossible that he could be a particularly beastly baller.
Then you watch him bury an unsuspecting UNLV guard with a spine-adjusting screen last season and you understand where the reputation comes from (as the description so perfectly describes the clip, "Boooooom!")
The Celtics sent cash considerations to the Indiana Pacers to buy the 53rd pick in last week's draft. Available that late in the yearly pick-a-palooza, Iverson faces an uphill battle to prove he belongs in the NBA, but the Boston brass likes him an awful lot.
"Colton is a player that we were excited by in the draft and had him ranked much higher than he ended up going," Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge said. "We were really fortunate to acquire a second-round pick to get Colton.
"Colton is a kid that we've watched since his freshman year of college at the University of Minnesota. We loved his intensity from Day 1 and identified him as someone that we needed to keep a real close eye on."
Iverson spent two seasons with the Gophers but elected to sit out a year and transfer to Colorado State with the goal of increasing his on-court opportunities.
During his senior season with the Rams, Iverson averaged 14.2 points and 9.8 rebounds over 29.5 minutes per game. He shot 59.6 percent from the floor and was one of the nation's most efficient offensive players (according to Synergy Sports data, he averaged 1.043 points per play, ranking in the 90th percentile among all Division 1 players).
Don't be misguided. Iverson's offensive limitations are a big reason that he was available among the draft's final picks. But his advanced numbers suggest a player who thrives in the post (1.013 points per play, 89th percentile), making the most of opportunities created in the pick-and-roll.
Still, Iverson's space-eating ability and rebounding talents are what will determine if he can carve out a role at the NBA level.
"When he transferred to Colorado State, you could see how his work ethic and intensity continued, his confidence grew with opportunities," Ainge said. "[Iverson was] one of the leading rebounders in the country. You know, for a guy to rebound at the level that he rebounded, it takes a lot of hard work and a lot of effort. He's put a lot of work into his body and he's gotten much stronger. And [he] just has a great intensity about him."
Soon after the draft, reports indicated that Iverson might consider a season overseas. Iverson denied that any such plan is on his mind, noting at Monday's introduction that, "The Boston Celtics drafted me and I have every intention of playing with them next year."
That means he'll have to put his best foot forward when the Celtics trek to Orlando for summer league later this week. With the team potentially facing a logjam in the frontcourt, it might benefit both parties if Iverson spends a season overseas (he gets a healthy payday and an introduction to pro ball; the Celtics save a roster spot while planning for the future).
At age 24, however, Iverson has made it a goal to latch on with Boston and plans to show what he can bring in Orlando.
"I think my best basketball is playing five-on-five; so if I can get in, get rebounds, get stops, set screens, get in the pick-and-roll -- that's what a lot of the NBA is nowadays, pick-and-roll, and that's my strength," he said. "Just do the little things and show the team that I'm ready to play right away."BOSTON -- The Green are getting greener.
With aging stars Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce on their way to the Brooklyn Nets and Doc Rivers coaching the Los Angeles Clippers, the Boston Celtics hired 36-year-old Brad Stevens from Butler as their next head coach Wednesday.
A source close to the Celtics confirmed that Stevens' deal is for six years and $22 million. Yahoo! Sports earlier reported terms of the contract. The Celtics have scheduled an 11 a.m. ET news conference Friday to introduce Stevens.
Stevens' hire drew reactions from players and coaches throughout the league, including legendary former coach Phil Jackson, who tweeted his thoughts.
Congrats, Danny Ainge, on hiring Brad Stevens. He has the demeanor of a composed leader. Hope he's got the hide of a rhino for NBA grind.
The move turns the tradition-bound franchise over to a mentor who is younger than Garnett and wasn't yet born when Bill Russell won his 11th NBA championship in 1969 (or even when John Havlicek added two more in the 1970s). It's the first time the Celtics have hired a college coach since Rick Pitino in 1997, and their first coach with no NBA experience of any kind since Alvin "Doggie" Julian gave way to Red Auerbach in 1950.
"Though he is young, I see Brad as a great leader who leads with impeccable character and a strong work ethic" Celtics general manager Danny Ainge said in a release. "His teams always play hard and execute on both ends of the court. Brad is a coach who has already enjoyed lots of success, and I look forward to working with him towards Banner 18."
A source with direct knowledge of the situation told ESPN.com's Andy Katz that the Celtics targeted Stevens as soon as the Rivers deal with the Clippers was finalized. The Celtics contacted Stevens a week ago. The two sides had phone conversations, and the Celtics were waiting for Stevens to say yes. Ainge and the Celtics' ownership group flew to Indianapolis on Wednesday morning for their one and only in-person meeting with Stevens, and he accepted the job there.
According to the source, the Celtics believe Stevens can be their head coach for a "long time,'' and they love his basketball mind, character and ability to relate to players. The source said the Celtics wanted to go for a coach who was highly respected. The Celtics talked to a few other candidates, but Stevens was the first, and throughout the past few years, whenever talk among the staff turned to a Rivers successor, Stevens' name was on the list.
Stevens had spent the past six years coaching Butler, leading the Bulldogs to back-to-back national championship games in 2010 and '11. He has a career winning percentage of .772 and never won fewer than 22 games in a season.
Stevens takes over a team that is three seasons removed from an appearance in the NBA Finals; the Celtics won their unprecedented 17th championship in 2008. But with Garnett and Pierce showing signs of slowing down in this year's playoffs, when Boston was eliminated by the New York Knicks in the first round, Ainge has decided to rebuild.
He allowed Rivers to take over the Clippers, extracting a first-round draft choice in return. Amid last week's NBA draft, the Celtics and Nets agreed to a deal that would send Garnett and Pierce to Brooklyn in exchange for a package of players along with three first-round draft picks.
Now, Stevens will be the one to work with those young players.
"Our family is thrilled for the opportunity given to us by the leadership of the Boston Celtics, but it is emotional to leave a place that we have called home for the past 13 years," Stevens said in a release issued by the university. "We truly love Butler University and Indianapolis, and are very thankful to have had the opportunity to celebrate so many wonderful things together."
At age 36, Stevens will be the youngest active coach in the NBA, two years ahead of Orlando's Jacque Vaughn.
At Butler, Stevens was 166-49 -- the most wins for any Division I coach in the first six years of his career. In 2009-10, the Bulldogs went 33-5, including the Horizon League's first 18-0 conference record, a 25-game winning streak and an appearance in the NCAA title game, where they lost to Duke 61-59 when a last-second, half-court shot bounced off the backboard and rim and out.
"Brad has given his talent to our university with exceptional generosity, integrity, and humility," Butler president James M. Danko said, calling Stevens "a beloved member of our community."
Butler athletic director Barry Collier also praised Stevens for his time at Butler, posting a message on Twitter.
@BUADCollier: Many thanks to Coach Brad Stevens for his outstanding leadership at #Butler. A fantastic person and we wish him well. — Barry Collier (@BUADCollier) July 4, 2013
Collier said Stevens' contract ran through 2025.
"That shows you the faith we had in Brad and the commitment we made to him," Collier said in a news conference at the school on Wednesday night. "I didn't treat it as inevitable [that he would leave]. I looked at it like every year Brad was our coach, it was another good year for Butler."
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, whose Blue Devils beat Butler to win the 2010 NCAA title, spoke glowingly of Boston's new hire.
"I think everyone is surprised. ... You think of Brad as one of the great college coaches," the Team USA coach told Katz. "He's an outstanding coach. He's at a time, he's young, I can see him, wanting to do something different. He's terrific. It's a great hire for the Celtics."
Krzyzewski, who himself has flirted with jumping to the NBA, thinks earning the respect of his new players won't be an issue with Stevens.
"He'll have respect. He's accomplished. Players respect success. He's had great success right away. So I don't think he'll have any problem with the players respecting him," Krzyzewski said. "They'll respect him. They respect excellence. He has it. It's a terrific hire. I'm a friend of his and I wish him the very best and I'll be pulling for him.
"To take over one of the most storied franchises in sports in an incredible opportunity, I can understand him doing it. In 1990, I almost did it with the Celtics. Dave Gavitt had just taken over. I can understand it."
While a new start lies ahead for Stevens and the Celtics, Butler is still left to fill the coach's enormous shoes.
"We have done everything we can to keep Brad here at Butler; however, the Celtics team has offered Brad and his family a unique opportunity with which no university can compete," Danko said.
Information from ESPN.com's Andy Katz and Jeff Goodman and The Associated Press was used in this report.The postponement of Monday night's NHL game between the Bruins and Ottawa Senators, and the cancellation of Tuesday's NBA game between the Celtics and Indiana Pacers -- both events to be held in Boston -- were the most tangible reactions by sports officials to the explosions at the marathon finish line that killed at least three people and injured more than 140 others.
A makeup date for Bruins-Senators was not announced; no other events from top professional leagues around the country were immediately called off.
Still, other effects of the explosions could be seen quickly, such as bomb-sniffing dogs sweeping the arena before the doors opened for an NHL game in Nashville between the Predators and Canucks, and armed police officers posted in front of each dugout at the Padres-Dodgers baseball game in Los Angeles.
More toughened measures are expected as security is calibrated for upcoming major events that draw big crowds including the Kentucky Derby on May 4, and the Indianapolis 500 on May 26.
Indianapolis Motor Speedway spokesman Doug Boles said Monday's attack will be a part of future meetings to review what precautions should be taken at the auto race.
"I guess this will bring a new topic or dialogue to those discussions, to see if there's anything more we need to do to prepare with respect to what's happened in Boston," Boles said. "And we will learn more about that over the next couple of days, as the folks in Boston do, and we will be prepared for that."
At the Kentucky Derby, which pulls in crowds approaching 250,000 each year at Churchill Downs Racetrack, security was beefed up recently following the death of Osama bin Laden.
"We are always in close contact at this time of year with the dozens of federal, state and local law enforcement and public safety partners who work with us every year on safety and security concerns for our major events," Churchill Downs spokesman John Asher wrote in an email. "We will be in close and frequent contact with them and rely heavily on their expertise, as we always do, in the hours and days to come."
A spokesman for the NBA released a statement to ESPN that read: "First and most importantly, our thoughts and prayers are with all those affected by the devastating events in Boston. While we don't think it is appropriate to get into specifics, we regularly practice a wide range of state of the art security measures in all of our arenas.
"We will continue to work with our arena and team partners, along with local law enforcement to be proactive around the perimeter of our venues and maintain a high level of vigilance, as always."
Abroad, British police reviewed security plans for Sunday's London Marathon, the next major international 26.2-mile race. It drew about 37,500 runners last year.
The London Marathon's chief executive, Nick Bitel, said race officials contacted the police to discuss security plans "as soon as we heard the news" about Boston. He expressed shock and sadness about the situation in Boston, saying "it is a very sad day for athletics and for our friends in marathon running."
In Brazil, organizers of the 2016 Rio Olympics said they consider security a top priority and are working closely with the local government on safety issues.
Back in Boston, Bruins president Cam Neely, a former player, said the hockey game's postponement was made after consulting city, state and league officials. He said authorities are still gathering information and "it is vital they have all resources available for their investigation."
Fans arriving early for the Bruins' game were met by police who were in the area to secure the arena and a nearby federal building. One officer outside the players' parking lot was telling arriving spectators, "The game is canceled. We need you to exit the city safely and quickly."
Moments later, Bruins captain Zdeno Chara drove out of the lot, and not long after that the Senators' team bus left down a side ramp.
Police were searching all bags and people entering the train station below the Bruins' arena.
An electronic sign, which usually lists departure times, instead read: "We ask all passengers to be as vigilant as possible and alert authorities if anything suspicious."
Said the Celtics: "Our sincere sympathies go out to all those affected by this senseless tragedy. The entire Celtics organization would like to acknowledge the heroic efforts of the brave civilian, police, fire and medical personnel responding today in the City of Boston."
The Red Sox game had been over for about an hour when the explosions could be heard at Fenway Park, about a mile from where the bombs went off at the finish line.
Major League Baseball called the bombings a "horrible occurrence" and said the league is monitoring the situation.
"The safety of everyone that comes to our ballparks is always our top priority and we will continue to do everything to ensure a safe environment for our fans," MLB spokesman Pat Courtney said.
President Barack Obama's news conference Monday evening was shown on the video board during batting practice before the Cincinnati Reds hosted the Philadelphia Phillies. There was a moment of silence for the Boston victims at that ballpark and at other major league stadiums with games Monday.
The New England Patriots released a statement Monday night, saying their "thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims and all who were injured by the bombings.
"Due to the tragic events, the Patriots have respectfully postponed their pre-draft press conference that was scheduled at Gillette Stadium on Tuesday, April 16. We plan to reschedule the press conference later this week."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.LeBron James and the Cavaliers come home to Cleveland for Game 3 trailing 0-2 in the 2018 NBA Finals. Can they steal a game from the Golden State Warriors, or will Stephen Curry & Co. continue rolling?
Here are the best ways to bet Game 3 from Erin Rynning and Andrew Han.
Note: All odds via Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook as of June 5.
Golden State Warriors (-190) at Cleveland Cavaliers (+160)
Wednesday at 9 p.m. ET in Cleveland
Spread: Warriors -5
Over/under: 216.5With the NBA season in full swing, certain trends are starting to emerge. The Golden State Warriors, Toronto Raptors, Denver Nuggets and Milwaukee Bucks are all off to hot starts, and we've gotten a better sense of what each of the 30 teams in the NBA have to offer with about 12 percent of the regular season already in the books.
We're more focused here on the day-to-day variance that can help you win a few bucks. With a big slate of games every Wednesday, we've asked a couple of our NBA experts -- Doug Kezirian and Andre Snellings -- to give their best bets for the night.
Lines displayed are from Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook on Wednesday morning. As always, shop around for the best price.
Denver Nuggets (-3) at Memphis Grizzlies
Total: 204.5
Snellings: The Nuggets areWith the NBA season in full swing, certain trends are starting to emerge. The Toronto Raptors have the best record in the NBA, while the race at the top of the Western Conference is tight thus far. We've gotten a better sense of what each of the 30 teams in the NBA have to offer, though trades and injuries have shifted some things around, and more than a quarter of the regular season is already in the books.
We're more focused here on the day-to-day variance that can help you win a few bucks. With a big slate of games every Wednesday, we've asked a few of our NBA experts -- Doug Kezirian, Jordan Schultz and Andre Snellings -- to give their best bets for the night.
Lines displayed are from Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook on Wednesday morning. As always, shop around for the best price.
Total: 219.5
Kezirian: The Warriors have been a puzzling team for stretches, butWith the NBA pushing past Christmas and nearing the halfway point of the season, certain trends are starting to emerge. The Milwaukee Bucks now have the best record in the NBA, but the Toronto Raptors, Denver Nuggets, Indiana Pacers, Golden State Warriors and Oklahoma City Thunder aren't too far behind. There's also a bunching of teams near the bottom of the totem pole, with three teams that have failed to reach 10 wins at this point in the season.
We've gotten a better sense of what each of the 30 teams in the NBA have to offer across the board, though trades and injuries continue to shift the balance of power on a regular basis. We're more focused here on the day-to-day variance that can help you win a few bucks. With a big slate of games every Wednesday, we've asked a few of our NBA experts -- Doug Kezirian, Jordan Schultz and Andre Snellings -- to give their best bets for the night.
Lines displayed are from Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook on Wednesday morning. As always, shop around for the best price.
Total: 230
Snellings: The Hawks began the season as one of the worst teams in the NBA, losing 16 of their first 19 games with an average scoring margin of -11.5 PPG. They have been a different team since John Collins returned to full speed, though, going 8-9 over their last 17 games and 5-2 over their last seven (with both of those losses coming against the surging Indiana Pacers).
The Wizards haveWith the NBA at the halfway point of the season, certain trends are starting to emerge. The Toronto Raptors and Milwaukee Bucks have the best records in the NBA, but there are quite a few teams bunched up right behind them. There are also several teams at the bottom that are struggling on a similar scale, with four teams having 10 or fewer wins.
ESPN + Subscribe to ESPN+ to get access to all premium articles, Fantasy tools, plus thousands of live sporting events and ESPN Originals for just $4.99/mo! Start Your Free Trial Already an ESPN+ subscriber? Log in here.LAS VEGAS -- The Cleveland Cavaliers were considered long shots last June to win this season's NBA title. They now enter the playoffs as the favorites.
Pat Summitt by the numbers 2: Medals won in Olympics 7: NCAA Coach of the Year awards 8: National championships 12: Olympians coached at Tennessee 18: Final Four appearances 21: Number of All­-Americans coached 31: NCAA tournament appearances 38: Seasons coaching the Lady Vols 112: NCAA tournament wins .841: Career winning percentage 1,098: Career victories $8,900: Summitt's 1st salary at Tennessee $1.4M: Compensation for 2008­-09 season
The Westgate SuperBook made the Cavaliers 9-4 favorites after Wednesday's games were completed. The Golden State Warriors are a close second at 5-2. The defending champion San Antonio Spurs, at 4-1, are the only other team with single-digit odds at the SuperBook.
The Cavs, the second seed in the Eastern Conference, were the consensus favorites in Vegas and could be found Thursday as low as even money at Caesars sportsbook to win the title. They will face the Boston Celtics in the first round with Game 1 on Sunday.
Last June, Cleveland was listed at 60-1, before buzz started building about the possible return of LeBron James. Bets on the Cavs started showing up in Vegas in early July, including a $1,000 wager at 40-1 at the MGM sportsbook. James announced he was returning to Cleveland on July 11, and Vegas books quickly anointed the Cavs as the favorites.
The Warriors, owners of the best record in the NBA and home-court advantage throughout the playoffs, opened at 20-1 last June at the SuperBook. They'll face the upstart New Orleans Pelicans in the first round, with Game 1 on Saturday. The Pelicans are 100-1 to win the title. They were 250-1 on Feb. 8, when a bettor at the William Hill sportsbook put $1,000 on New Orleans to win it all.
The Milwaukee Bucks are the biggest surprises to reach the playoffs, according to Vegas odds. The SuperBook opened the Bucks at 300-1 last summer. They are 200-1 entering the playoffs, the same odds as the Brooklyn Nets and Celtics. Milwaukee faces the Chicago Bulls in the first round. In January, William Hill took a $200 bet on the Bucks to win the title at 300-1 odds.
William Hill had the Nets at 750-1 in late March and took a $100 at those lofty odds. The Nets will face the Atlanta Hawks, the top seed in the Eastern Conference, in the first round. The Hawks are 12-1.Here are the series betting prices for the NBA Finals as of Tuesday morning, courtesy of the Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook, as well as individual game lines.
ABOUT COOKIES
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?