Seton Hall sophomore guard Aaron Cosby said Friday he will transfer to Illinois.
Cosby committed to the Illini during a visit to the school on Friday. He had previously planned to also visit Missouri on Saturday, but canceled the trip. He will have two years of eligibility remaining after sitting out next season.
"Coach (John) Groce, the staff, the fans all made me feel at home," Cosby said in a text. "Coach Groce really put his best foot forward with me and my family, and I felt he was sincere. It's a great opportunity here, and it fit everything that I was looking for in my new situation.
"It was tough because I respect (Missouri coach Frank) Haith and what he's doing at Missouri. They did a great job recruiting me. But I just felt Illinois is right for me."
Cosby, a 6-foot-3, 190-pound combo guard, started 58 games for Seton Hall in his first two seasons. He averaged 12.6 points, 3.0 rebounds and 2.6 rebounds as a sophomore. He also shot 42.6 percent from the field, 40 percent from 3-pointer range and 75.2 percent from the free throw line.
Illinois assistant coach Dustin Ford was the lead recruiter for Cosby.
Cosby joins a 2013 recruiting class that is ranked by No. 18 by ESPN. The class also includes five high school seniors -- shooting guard Kendrick Nunn, small forward Malcolm Hill, power forward Austin Colbert, center Maverick Morgan and point guard Jaylon Tate.CHICAGO -- After more than three decades spent playing in the suburbs, DePaul basketball is finally getting its own place in the city.
On Thursday, Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel announced plans for a new 10,000-seat arena that will serve as the home floor for DePaul men's and women's basketball. Construction on the facility is scheduled to begin in 2014, and the school is hoping to open in time for the 2016-17 season.
The $173 million arena will be built across the street from McCormick Place -- the largest convention center in North America -- in the city's Near South Side neighborhood. The school will pay rent at the building but will retain naming rights and permanent internal and external signage space.
Athletic director Jean Lenti Ponsetto said at a news conference on Thursday the new arena, accessible via the city's scenic Lake Shore Drive and connected with DePaul's campuses via the Red Line "El" train, would allow to DePaul to impress recruits, promote student attendance and engage with its home city in ways not possible at the aging, suburban Allstate Arena.
"One of the many issues that we've dealt with over the years ... is building affinity and school pride," Ponsetto said. "It was becoming more and more difficult for our students to make their way to the Allstate Arena, and that was continuously a point of concern for us. Our future season-ticket holders are students that are currently enrolled."
Ponsetto also said he thinks a new arena could help the program improve the school's product on the court.
"It's a really important opportunity for us to elevate the program and enhance our recruiting," Ponsetto said. "Most of us would think the byproduct of that would be that we would win."
The new arena is just one part of Emanuel's $1.1 billion "Enhance Chicago" tourism and trade show infrastructure revitalization effort, a wave of planned redevelopment that will include nearby hotels, bars, restaurants and other entertainment. Those plans also include a $278 million update to the city's iconic Navy Pier tourist attraction, among other lakefront changes.
Funding for the arena will comprise $70 million from DePaul, $70 million from the McPier bond fund and $33 million from public taxes, the Chicago Sun-Times reported Thursday.
The proposals will have to survive revenue-strapped state and local political climates, and the arena already might be the most controversial portion of the plan. Neighborhood residents have raised concerns about the use of public funds for the benefit of a private institution, as well as the potential impact on the local neighborhood. Alderman Robert Fioretti, whose 2nd Ward encompasses McCormick Place, told the Chicago Tribune on Thursday the "public is not going to go for using public money unless it is strictly justified."
DePaul, which has been playing its home games at Allstate Arena since 1980, has been openly searching for a new home for its basketball team in recent years. One early proposal hoped for the construction of an own single-use basketball arena near the school's main Lincoln Park campus. In November 2012, DePaul received a 10-year, rent-free offer from the United Center. It rejected that offer in March, opting to pursue the McCormick Place plan instead.
Ponsetto said the school would reserve 17 winter dates for men's home games and as many as 10 for the women's team, in addition to convocation and graduation ceremonies.
Meanwhile, DePaul will play the 2013-14 season -- its first in the new offshoot Big East, which signed a 12-year multiplatform media rights agreement with Fox Sports this spring -- on a renewable one-year contract with Allstate Arena.
Purnell said even talk of the new arena, and the athletic support facilities that will accompany it, have helped the rebuilding men's program's lackluster local perception.
"Facilities are huge in terms of a priority buying motive for a prospect and his family and influencers," Purnell said. "Already talking about the possibility of building a place and the real possibility and likelihood of it happening has already helped us in recruiting Chicago-area players."Former New York Knicks great and Hall of Famer Patrick Ewing has emerged as a "major" candidate to become the next head coach at Georgetown, according to Jon Rothstein of FanRag Sports.
Ewing played his collegiate ball at Georgetown, leading the Hoyas to a national championship in 1984. He has reportedly been interviewed several times by the school.
John Thompson III was recently relieved of his duties after spending the past 13 seasons coaching the team that his dad, John Thompson Jr., helped put on the national map. Thompson III replaced Craig Esherick in 2004, who took over after Thompson Jr.'s 27-year tenure ended after the 1998-99 season.
Sources told Rothstein that Ewing would be Thompson Jr.'s choice to serve as Georgetown's next head coach. He coached Ewing from 1981-85, reaching three Final Fours with the big man on his roster.
Ewing has been rumored to take over an NBA team on several occasions, but has been playing an assistant role for 13 years. He started off on the Washington Wizards' bench in 2002-03, then spent time with the Houston Rockets (2003-06) and Orlando Magic (2007-12) before landing with the Charlotte Hornets, where he's currently the associate head coach.
ESPN's Jeff Goodman described a potential Ewing hire a move that would "keep it in the family."
The Hoyas have missed the NCAA tournament in each of the past two seasons, and haven't been out of the first weekend since 2007 when they made it to the Final Four.
-- Josiah TurnerBoston College has hired former Ohio University coach Jim Christian to lead its men's basketball program, and the new coach says he can't wait to get his hands dirty with the work ahead.
"First of all, obviously I'm tremendously excited and humbled to take over a program with the history and tradition of Boston College," Christian said in a conference call Thursday. "If you look at the great coaches and the success that [the Eagles have] had over the years, this is a situation where you wake up every day and you can't wait to get to work and roll your sleeves up.
Jim Christian was 49-22 in two seasons at Ohio University. AP Photo/Tony Dejak
"I can't wait to get up there and meet our players and spend as much time getting to know them as possible."
Christian replaces Steve Donahue, who was fired last month after four seasons without an NCAA tournament berth. The Eagles were 54-76 in the four seasons under Donahue, including an 8-24 mark in 2013-14.
The 49-year-old Christian led the Bobcats to a 49-22 record in two seasons in the Mid-American Conference. Before that, he spent 10 years in stops at Texas Christian and Kent State. In all, he has led his teams to eight postseason berths in 12 years.
He leaves Ohio as the record holder for highest winning percentage (.700) in MAC history.
Athletic director Brad Bates called the more than two-week search for a successor "a very deliberate, meticulous process" and said he's thrilled to work with Christian in Chestnut Hill.
"This sport is about recruiting and coaching," Bates said. "You've gotta get talented athletes in here that fit your institution, and you've gotta develop them and coach them.
"You need a coach and a staff that can flat-out recruit and develop those kids with their coaching. And beyond that, we want to win. We want someone with championships and postseason appearances. Someone with New England roots was important. Someone with energy and passion. And at the end of the day someone who was in this for the right reasons, who genuinely cares about his kids."
In the end, Bates and the BC search committee decided Christian was the best fit. A native of Bethpage, N.Y., Christian graduated from Rhode Island in 1988 after playing two years at Boston University, where he was recruited by Rick Pitino.
Christian said he hopes to retain the talent that's currently on the roster at BC -- with players such as Olivier Hanlan, Ryan Anderson and Lonnie Jackson all due back next season -- and to build on that base for the future.
"Without question, priority No. 1 and priority No. 1A are going to be our current players and then our future players, the guys that we're going for," he said. "Right after we hang up this phone I'm gonna start working on that."
The new coach is excited about the challenges he'll face in trying to help the Eagles become relevant in the ultra-deep ACC, which welcomes Louisville next season after adding Syracuse and Pittsburgh this past season.
"I always look at programs historically, not just kinda where they are right now," Christian said. "And I think if you look at Boston College historically and the things that they've accomplished, it excites you. Any coach wants to get his chance to compete against the very best, and honestly the ACC is the very best."
Bates had maintained all along that he wasn't interested in making a "splash" with this hire, and Christian addressed that on Thursday.
Citing Tom Davis, Jim O'Brien and Al Skinner, Christian said "the guys who've had success there had backgrounds just like me."
Before BC, Davis coached at Lafayette, O'Brien coached at St. Bonaventure and Skinner coached at Marist and Rhode Island.
"I think in those days, those guys might not have been considered the 'splash hire,'" Christian said, "but at the end of the day they had unbelievable success and they're legends up there for the work that they did. That excites me because I think that's the goal is for me to be judged at the end, when I've done the best job that I can do and worked as hard as I can."
Jack McCluskey is an editor for ESPN.com and a frequent contributor to ESPNBoston.com. Follow him on Twitter @jack_mccluskey.DePaul and Dave Leitao's representatives agreed to a deal on Sunday to have the Tulsa assistant return as the Blue Demons' head coach after a 10-year absence.
Leitao's deal with DePaul is for five years, sources told ESPN. An introductory news conference has been scheduled for Monday afternoon.
"This is a special day for my family and me," Leitao said in a statement released by the school. "I underestimated what a special place DePaul University and the city of Chicago are when I left here in 2005. The dedication and support here to the growth of student success is second to none, not only for a basketball program but also for the entire student body.
"I'm proud and our team will be proud to represent this great institution in one of the world's great cities. We will exude the work ethic that drives Chicago and the region every day and look forward to everyone joining us next season."
In each of Leitao's three seasons coaching DePaul from 2002 to 2005, the Blue Demons reached the postseason, making the NCAA tournament in 2004 and the NIT in 2003 and 2005. The Blue Demons haven't been back to the NCAA tournament since Leitao's tenure.
"His success here speaks for itself with three postseason appearances in three years with teams that energized our alumni and fans with their competitiveness and work ethic," athletic director Jean Lenti Ponsetto said in the statement.
"When he left in 2005, we recognized that it is the nature of our business that dynamic coaches get recruited away. Now we are pleased to welcome Dave, his wife Joyce and their family back to Lincoln Park with great enthusiasm for his leadership and the future development of our men's basketball program."
Leitao left DePaul to coach Virginia for four seasons before coaching in the D-League and then becoming an assistant to Frank Haith at both Missouri and most recently Tulsa.
Leitao also was a head coach at Northeastern for two seasons in the 1990s, going 22-35 overall, between stints as an assistant under Jim Calhoun at UConn.
DePaul finished 12-20 (6-12 Big East) this season, leading to coach Oliver Purnell's resignation earlier this month.Notre Dame forward Tim Abromaitis was denied a sixth year of eligibility from the NCAA and will not appeal the decision, the school announced Tuesday.
Abromaitis tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee Nov. 25, costing him his fifth season with the Irish. He played in just two games in the 2011-12 season, averaging 14 points and 7 rebounds per game.
Abromaitis had been forced to sit out the first four games of this past season because of a misunderstanding of NCAA rules from his sophomore season three years earlier, when he played in a pair of exhibitions before redshirting that season. Despite missing most of this past season, he was honored at the Big East tournament in March as the Big East Scholar-Athlete of the Year, becoming the first player to win the award three years in a row.
Abromaitis also sat out the 2008-09 season simply to preserve a year of eligibility.
The 6-foot-8, 236-pound Abromaitis was a preseason All-Big East selection who played on the USA men's basketball World University Games team in August. He finishes his college career averaging 13.7 points a game and 4.8 rebounds per game.
Notre Dame has also applied for a sixth year of eligibility for Scott Martin but said it has not yet received a decision. Martin figures to have a better chance of receiving the extra year, as the Valparaiso, Ind., native played his freshman year at Purdue in 2007-08 before transferring to Notre Dame to be closer to his sick father, sitting out the next season and then missing the 2009-10 campaign because of a torn ACL in his left knee suffered in a preseason workout.Northwestern senior forward Drew Crawford will have season-ending surgery on his right shoulder due to a torn labrum, the school announced Friday.
Crawford is eligible to seek a medical hardship waiver and could return for a fifth season.
"Drew's situation is similar to (redshirt freshman guard) Tre Demps' a year ago," Northwestern coach Bill Carmody said in a statement. "Drew aggravated a previous injury in early September and attempted to play through it, but it just hasn't responded as we all would have liked.
"While it obviously hurts to lose a player of Drew's caliber, it provides an opportunity for his teammates to step up and contribute."
Crawford was averaging 13.5 points in 10 games this season. He averaged 16.1 points and was an All-Big Ten third-team selection last season. He has scored 1,418 career points and ranks 10th in school history.Northwestern senior forward Drew Crawford will have season-ending surgery on his right shoulder due to a torn labrum, the school announced Friday.
Crawford is eligible to seek a medical hardship waiver and could return for a fifth season.
"Drew's situation is similar to (redshirt freshman guard) Tre Demps' a year ago," Northwestern coach Bill Carmody said in a statement. "Drew aggravated a previous injury in early September and attempted to play through it, but it just hasn't responded as we all would have liked.
"While it obviously hurts to lose a player of Drew's caliber, it provides an opportunity for his teammates to step up and contribute."
Crawford was averaging 13.5 points in 10 games this season. He averaged 16.1 points and was an All-Big Ten third-team selection last season. He has scored 1,418 career points and ranks 10th in school history.CHICAGO -- Jabari Parker, the nation's No. 2 senior, committed to Duke during a news conference at his school Thursday.
Parker, a 6-foot-8 forward out of Simeon Career Academy, chose the Blue Devils over BYU, Florida, Michigan State and Stanford.
Although hats representing all five schools initially were situated on a table in the Simeon gym, Parker pulled out a Duke long-sleeved T-shirt while announcing his decision.
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski has had good luck with recruits in his native Chicago. He also landed Jon Scheyer (Glenbrook North), Sean Dockery (Julian), Michael Thompson (Providence) and Corey Maggette (Fenwick) from the area.
"What brought me to the decision is, of course, the history," Parker said. "Duke was always going to be a team in the tournament. You can't go wrong at the program. And most importantly, the long-term investment -- I feel if I go there, I can get a good degree.
"I can also stay close to home, where it's easily accessible for my parents, for my family. It's not too far away. And it's just Coach K -- that's one of the best coaches ever, and I wanted to be able to experience the things that he has next year."
Parker said he called Krzyzewski and Duke to inform them of his decision.
"He said congratulations," Parker said. "(Duke was) pretty excited. I know (I'm) not in their mind. They land players like me all the time."
The official visit to Duke was not Parker's favorite recruiting trip, he said.
"To tell you the truth, that was probably the worst on-campus visit I had," Parker said. "It was just because I didn't do what I wanted to do, which was be a kid. But I know being at college is all business, and that's what they wanted to show me. I know I didn't have a good time, but they just wanted to tell me and prepare for me and give me a little bit of taste how it is going to be in college."
Parker said the final decision came down to Florida, Michigan State and Duke. He admitted that choosing Duke over Michigan State and longtime Spartans coach Tom Izzo was "difficult."
"(Izzo) has been recruiting me ever since I was a freshman in high school, and he's been to most of my games," Parker said.
"But a lot of things went into it like, 'How will I be used on the floor?' (Spartans forward) Branden Dawson and I play the same position, and it would be kind of a controversy if me and him were on the same floor and we run into each other. I just wanted to go to a school that was fitting for me."Seton Hall sophomore guard Aaron Cosby said Friday he will transfer to Illinois.
Cosby committed to the Illini during a visit to the school on Friday. He had previously planned to also visit Missouri on Saturday, but canceled the trip. He will have two years of eligibility remaining after sitting out next season.
"Coach (John) Groce, the staff, the fans all made me feel at home," Cosby said in a text. "Coach Groce really put his best foot forward with me and my family, and I felt he was sincere. It's a great opportunity here, and it fit everything that I was looking for in my new situation.
"It was tough because I respect (Missouri coach Frank) Haith and what he's doing at Missouri. They did a great job recruiting me. But I just felt Illinois is right for me."
Cosby, a 6-foot-3, 190-pound combo guard, started 58 games for Seton Hall in his first two seasons. He averaged 12.6 points, 3.0 rebounds and 2.6 rebounds as a sophomore. He also shot 42.6 percent from the field, 40 percent from 3-pointer range and 75.2 percent from the free throw line.
Illinois assistant coach Dustin Ford was the lead recruiter for Cosby.
Cosby joins a 2013 recruiting class that is ranked by No. 18 by ESPN. The class also includes five high school seniors -- shooting guard Kendrick Nunn, small forward Malcolm Hill, power forward Austin Colbert, center Maverick Morgan and point guard Jaylon Tate.Loyola has accepted an invitation and agreed in principle to join the Missouri Valley Conference, a school spokesperson confirmed on Monday.
The Ramblers will replace Creighton which will be moving to the Big East. Loyola is expected to officially join the conference on July 1.
Loyola has been in the Horizon League since the conference's beginning in 1979.
In the past two and a half years, Loyola has upgraded its athletic facilities, renovated the Gentile Center, and hired an athletic director (M. Grace Calhoun), men's basketball coach (Porter Moser) and women's basketball coach (Sheryl Swoopes).
Moser has plenty of familiarity with the Missouri Valley. He played in the conference at Creighton and coached at Illinois State.
Moser said Monday he believes there is a lot of potential for his program joining the Missouri Valley, which had two teams, including Final Four participant Wichita State, reach the NCAA tournament this past season.
"I've always said Loyola is the perfect job for me personally and a great fit," Moser said. "Now I can say I have the trifecta. I have a Jesuit education; I'm a Catholic kid from the Chicago area; and now I've played in the Missouri Valley. I can sit in peoples' homes and sell Loyola to recruits. I've played and coached in this league and understand how good the league is, the atmosphere in the league and the profile of the Valley."
Moser also said he hoped to continue his program's inner-city rivalry with Illinois-Chicago on a non-conference basis. UIC has been in the Horizon League since 1994.
"I think no question being in the same conference raised it up a notch," Moser said of the rivalry. "I anticipate it not losing an ounce of intensity. We want the Chicago teams to play each other. It's great for the city. It's great for the programs. I think it'll continue to be a healthy, intense rivalry."Whitney Young center Jahlil Okafor, ESPN's No. 1-ranked junior in the country, will hold in-home visits for Baylor, Duke, Kansas and Michigan State next week and already has hosted Ohio State, according to Okafor's father.
Chukwudi Okafor said Wednesday his son is interested in all five schools, but they aren't the only ones he's considering. The five schools were permitted in-home visits because they requested them. Chukwudi said other schools Okafor is interested in had not contacted the family to set up visits.
"These schools reached out and asked to come out to him," Chukwudi said. "I haven't called any coaches to say, 'Will you come to our home to visit?' That's not my job. We won't hold any visits to schools where Jahlil isn't going to have interest in them. I won't waste their time.
"At this point in the [recruiting] game, it's pretty mundane. It's pretty much the same. The coaches give you the same spiel for the last 2-3 years. Now, it's more of an informal setting. Sit back and relax, meet the family, see if they have any questions for us and vice versa. Any serious questions we have, we'll ask them. We want to find the best fit for Jahlil. This seems like the easy part."
The 6-foot-11, 270-pound Okafor averaged 21 points and nine rebounds during his junior season. He finished second to Simeon senior Jabari Parker, a Duke recruit, in the voting for Illinois' Mr. Basketball.
Okafor and Apple Valley (Minn.) point guard Tyus Jones, ESPN's No. 2-ranked player in the 2014 class, previously have said they would like to play together in college, and Chukwudi Okafor said that still could happen. Jones recently released a list of finalists that included Baylor, Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan State, Minnesota and Ohio State.
"That's definitely still a possibility," Chukwudi Okafor said. "They have a lot of the same schools in common they like. They're best friends. They've known each since they were 8 years old."
When asked about in-state schools, Chukwudi Okafor said Illinois was still involved with his son. Chukwudi Okafor said Illinois coach John Groce had not requested an in-home visit, but he would be permitted one if the family was asked.
"We were just talking about Coach Groce," Chukwudi Okafor said. "Coach Groce has contacted us a few times. He hasn't asked anything about a home visit. He's asked us to come out to visit. I've been there quite a few times. I'm not in a rush to get down to Champaign. Nothing against the coaching staff. Nothing against the university. I've been there enough to know about the school."
Chukwudi said his son hopes to put out a list of finalists in the near future. Okafor is playing the spring and summer club circuit with the Mac Irvin Fire.Oregon State junior point guard Ahmad Starks said Tuesday he will transfer to Illinois.
Ahmad Starks' three-point shooting could prove to be a valuable weapon for Illinois. Stephen Dunn/Getty Images
Starks, a 5-foot-9, 165-pound guard, decided to leave Oregon State to be closer to his ailing grandmother in Chicago. He will seek a family hardship waiver from the NCAA and could be eligible next season. He also considered transferring to Bradley.
Starks, who attended Whitney Young High School in Chicago, started 73 games in three seasons at Oregon State. He averaged 10.4 points, 2.0 rebounds, 2.3 assists and 1.0 steal as a junior. He is Oregon State's career leader in 3-pointers made and shot 64-of-162 from 3-point range last season.
"It's the state school," Starks said of Illinois. "It's always been big for me. I always liked watching it growing up, watching Dee Brown and those guys. I took a visit when Bruce Weber was the coach. I liked the situation there, and it didn't work out. Being close to home, the alumni situation, all of it is huge. They have a great fan base.
"I'm like a lot of players that plan to be a professional basketball player of some sort when I'm done with college. It's definitely a good opportunity to play for a team that I can help out and be close to my grandmother. My parents can hopefully bring her down often, every home game and much as possible. It's a great opportunity to play for coach [John] Groce and his staff and the players there."
Starks and his family also had a previous relationship with Illinois assistant coach Paris Parham, who had recruited Starks while an assistant at Illinois State.
Starks could be a major contributor in the Illini's backcourt next season if eligible. Illinois returns point guard Tracy Abrams, who started 32 games as a sophomore last season. Incoming freshman Jaylon Tate will be the only other point guard on the roster.
Starks said Illinois' coaches sold him on their fast-paced style and playing beside Abrams and shooting guard Joseph Bertand in a three-guard offense.
"Obviously, Tracy and I would play a lot together," Starks said. "That situation could be worked out great. Tracy can play both positions, and I can play both a little bit. I'm more of a point guard. We can both shoot the ball. We can definitely play off each other. They like to play faster, and they thought they could be even faster with me. Bertrand, I imagine, would be that third guy, and he can play fast. It'll help in all facets."
Starks is the fourth transfer Illinois has received since the end of the season. Illinois State junior forward Jon Ekey, Seton Hall sophomore guard Aaron Cosby and Western Michigan freshman forward Darius Paul also recently opted to transfer to Illinois.
Illinois has received six transfers since Groce took over the program prior to last season. Rayvonte Rice (Drake) and Sam McLaurin (Coastal Carolina) joined the team before last season. McLaurin played for Illinois as a senior this past season, and Rice will be eligible next season after sitting out the 2012-2013 season.
The Illini's 2013 recruiting class, ranked No. 15 by ESPN, also includes five high school seniors -- shooting guard Kendrick Nunn, small forward Malcolm Hill, power forward Austin Colbert, center Maverick Morgan and Tate.Oregon State junior point guard Ahmad Starks said Tuesday he will transfer to Illinois.
Ahmad Starks' three-point shooting could prove to be a valuable weapon for Illinois. Stephen Dunn/Getty Images
Starks, a 5-foot-9, 165-pound guard, decided to leave Oregon State to be closer to his ailing grandmother in Chicago. He will seek a family hardship waiver from the NCAA and could be eligible next season. He also considered transferring to Bradley.
Starks, who attended Whitney Young High School in Chicago, started 73 games in three seasons at Oregon State. He averaged 10.4 points, 2.0 rebounds, 2.3 assists and 1.0 steal as a junior. He is Oregon State's career leader in 3-pointers made and shot 64-of-162 from 3-point range last season.
"It's the state school," Starks said of Illinois. "It's always been big for me. I always liked watching it growing up, watching Dee Brown and those guys. I took a visit when Bruce Weber was the coach. I liked the situation there, and it didn't work out. Being close to home, the alumni situation, all of it is huge. They have a great fan base.
"I'm like a lot of players that plan to be a professional basketball player of some sort when I'm done with college. It's definitely a good opportunity to play for a team that I can help out and be close to my grandmother. My parents can hopefully bring her down often, every home game and much as possible. It's a great opportunity to play for coach [John] Groce and his staff and the players there."
Starks and his family also had a previous relationship with Illinois assistant coach Paris Parham, who had recruited Starks while an assistant at Illinois State.
Starks could be a major contributor in the Illini's backcourt next season if eligible. Illinois returns point guard Tracy Abrams, who started 32 games as a sophomore last season. Incoming freshman Jaylon Tate will be the only other point guard on the roster.
Starks said Illinois' coaches sold him on their fast-paced style and playing beside Abrams and shooting guard Joseph Bertand in a three-guard offense.
"Obviously, Tracy and I would play a lot together," Starks said. "That situation could be worked out great. Tracy can play both positions, and I can play both a little bit. I'm more of a point guard. We can both shoot the ball. We can definitely play off each other. They like to play faster, and they thought they could be even faster with me. Bertrand, I imagine, would be that third guy, and he can play fast. It'll help in all facets."
Starks is the fourth transfer Illinois has received since the end of the season. Illinois State junior forward Jon Ekey, Seton Hall sophomore guard Aaron Cosby and Western Michigan freshman forward Darius Paul also recently opted to transfer to Illinois.
Illinois has received six transfers since Groce took over the program prior to last season. Rayvonte Rice (Drake) and Sam McLaurin (Coastal Carolina) joined the team before last season. McLaurin played for Illinois as a senior this past season, and Rice will be eligible next season after sitting out the 2012-2013 season.
The Illini's 2013 recruiting class, ranked No. 15 by ESPN, also includes five high school seniors -- shooting guard Kendrick Nunn, small forward Malcolm Hill, power forward Austin Colbert, center Maverick Morgan and Tate.The ongoing rumor that Duke is the leader for the recruiting package of No. 1-ranked senior Jahlil Okafor and No. 3-ranked Tyus Jones is ruining the recruiting process for the two players, Okafor's father said on Friday.
"It's disappointing. It's taking the fun out of the process for the two boys," Okafor's father, Chukwudi Okafor, said by phone on Friday. "That's a shame. Let the kids go through the process. I just want them to enjoy it, not the media, not Twitter, not the coaches, not the AAU coaches. Those kids are highly intelligent. They know what to do. Let it play out, and I think the world is in for something special."
"They're going to make their decision. Everybody is saying they say this and they say that. It's not fair to them. It's not fair to the other schools. It's not fair to Duke. They might want to go to Duke, but decide not to go there because everyone is saying that's where they're going. I'd hate for that to happen."
The rumor began with Okafor's club coach, Mike Irvin, recently telling the Chicago Sun-Times he believed Duke had "a really good chance to land [Okafor]." Irvin went on to say, "I think there is a great chance Tyus is going to Duke. So if [Okafor and Tyus] are going to school together ..."
From there, the rumor took off. Other reporters and bloggers followed with the same story, and it created a buzz on Twitter. It got to the point where Okafor tweeted on Thursday, "I don't have a leader. Stop the rumors."
"Let them decide," Chukwudi said. "No AAU coach knows; no high school coach knows; no parent knows. The reason no one knows is because they don't know."
Okafor, a 6-foot-11 center who attends Whitney Young in Chicago, and Jones, a 6-foot-1 point guard who attends Apple Valley in Minnesota, are still set on committing to the same school, according to Chukwudi. Both players have included Baylor, Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan State and Ohio State on their lists.
"I speak with Tyus' mother frequently, and the boys pretty much talk every day," Chukwudi said. "It's communication back and forth. You don't want to give the perception that Tyus is going to decide where Jahlil is going or Jahlil is going to decide where Tyus is going. They're really looking for what is the best for both of them. That's the unique thing about this process."
The only differences between their lists are Okafor also is considering Arizona and Illinois, whereas Jones has included Minnesota. But with that variation, there's no guarantee they end up at the same school.
Tyus Jones and Jahlil Okafor want to play together, but neither will dictate which school the other picks. AP Photo/Damen Jackson
"The ultimate goal is for both the boys to play together," Chukwudi said. "But they may not find a situation that fits them both. It would be great for them to play together."
The two players will make official visits together to Baylor on Aug. 30, Kansas on Oct. 18 and Duke on Oct. 25. Okafor will visit Kentucky on Sept. 9 and Arizona on Oct. 11 without Jones. Okafor will also make unofficial visits to Illinois, Michigan State and Ohio State.
Okafor would like to make a decision in November, but his dad said that is not set in stone.
"If he's comfortable with the decision and school, he'll say it," Chukwudi said. "He wants to know the school where he's going as bad as everyone wants it. I want him to enjoy his senior year and move on to the next chapter."
"Jahlil, he's handled [the recruiting process] greatly. I think at this point he hasn't learned to say no yet to calls from the media and coaches. That will come in time. As far as just the fact he has the stress of everyone wanting to guess where he's going. It takes away from the process they're going through. He hasn't made a decision. He isn't even close. There's no way he's close. He's developing relationships with the coaches. He hasn't been to a majority of the schools. Those things will play a large factor."WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. -- A blanket of snow outside kept the crowd inside Joel Coliseum to a bare minimum for Saturday's game between No. 13 Georgetown and host Wake Forest, but the library quiet just made it that much easier to hear a voice that could have been heard had the place filled to Tim Duncan-era capacity.
"Sugar, you've got to "
Play basketball Mad Libs for the rest of the sentiment: defend, rebound, hustle. Pretty much any admonition you can think of, Georgetown assistant Keith Brown tacked it on to the end of a bellow directed squarely at Sugar Rodgers, the reigning Big East rookie of the year. And this was on a night when Rodgers led all scorers with 20 points on 6-of-10 shooting in a 64-49 win to help the Hoyas improve to 7-1.
Rodgers was an unqualified success story last season, averaging 17.6 points and setting a program record with 83 3-pointers. But with more college games ahead of her than behind, she remains a work in progress -- not altogether unlike the team around her, a team with the talent to beat Tennessee by 11 points the day after losing to Missouri by nine points. And neither Brown nor her head coach let her forget.
"She knows she has a lot of work because we tell her every day," Georgetown coach Terri Williams-Flournoy said. "We don't sugarcoat her at all."
Against Wake Forest, much of the positive, and otherwise, reinforcement came when Wake Forest had the ball. A key part of Georgetown's omnipresent pressure, Rodgers had 60 steals last season -- good but perhaps not as many as her talent indicates is possible in 30-plus minutes per game. And ballhawking, relatively speaking, is the easy part of playing defense for the Hoyas. Rodgers has a distinctive quick release on the offensive end, looking at times as though she starts her shooting motion while a pass is still en route. It's the slow grind of playing 30 seconds on the other end that takes time.
"She's the type of kid that you have to stay on top of because she is very good," Williams-Flournoy said. "Things do come easily for her, so she does have a tendency to get lazy and take breaks on the defensive end and pick it up on the offensive end. So we're trying to get her to understand that to be a full, rounded player, she's got to play both ends of the court."
Rodgers carries an undeniably heavy burden on the offensive end. She took roughly one-quarter of the team's field goal attempts last season, and she's on the same pace this season. As of the Wake Forest game, Monica McNutt is the only other Hoyas player averaging more than seven points per game. When the Hoyas need a big shot, as when Tennessee made its run late in that game when the teams met in the Virgin Islands around Thanksgiving, or as Georgetown overcame a sluggish start and a good effort from the Demon Deacons to claim the lead for good late in the first half of Saturday's game, it's Rodgers who is going to get the ball.
And as suggested by the final score in the Tennessee game, or the 26 wins last season, she's generally going to do something pretty special with it. But the Hoyas will have leads to protect, particularly as Big East play arrives, only if the defense earns them by wearing down opponents and taking away the ball.
"To be honest with you, we have to turn teams over because we can't rebound," Williams-Flournoy said. "That's almost like our only defense to not getting any rebounds; we've got to turn them over. I think we've gotten outrebounded every game, but we're 7-1. Maybe we outrebounded Augusta State. Maybe."
They did get the best of Augusta State, as well as La Salle, on the boards, but it's easy to see where she's coming from. Georgetown has quality wins over Maryland, Georgia Tech, Tennessee, Richmond and Wake Forest despite losing the battle of the boards in all five games. What the Hoyas have is 98 steals and 197 turnovers forced in eight games, including 15 steals and 29 turnovers forced in the win over Tennessee, assuredly one of the biggest in program history. If Rodgers is as big a part of that as she is the offense, Georgetown will be an intriguing team come March.
And so even on snowy nights on the road in December, when it's quiet enough to hear the sound of the net as one of Rodgers' shots rips through it, Williams-Flournoy, Brown and the rest of the coaching staff will keep the volume dialed up on making their best player even better.
"She's got to play defense constantly, all the time, because that's what we do," Williams-Flournoy said. "Our defense dictates our offense. It does not work the other way."
Three things that caught my eye
1.
The battle for Kentucky is on. Texas has the edge when it comes to in-state rivalries this season, with Baylor and Texas A&M fighting for space in the top 10 and the Longhorns angling to make a move, but put the state of Kentucky squarely in the conversation for No. 2 on that list. Getting a signature win to go with respectable losses against Tennessee and at Xavier and Old Dominion, Louisville handled No. 9 Kentucky with surprising ease in a 78-52 victory Sunday. Freshman Shoni Schimmel scored 26 for the Cardinals and, despite eight turnovers, is playing remarkably efficient basketball for a freshman (shooting 47.2 percent from the floor and 39.7 percent from the 3-point line to go with a 1.5 assist-to-turnover ratio). The domino effect is Becky Burke can return to the shooter's role she thrived in alongside Angel McCoughtry -- and in scoring 21 points on 6-of-12 shooting from behind the arc against Kentucky.
As long as Jeff Walz and Matthew Mitchell are on the sidelines, the battle for state supremacy is one worth watching.
2. Unbeaten, untied and unproven describes more than a few teams. We're coming up on the end of the first month of games, and there are still 16 unbeaten teams, including seven that weren't ranked in last week's Top 25. Among that latter group is Oklahoma State, which followed a supremely soft opening stretch with quality wins over New Mexico, Arkansas-Little Rock and, most recently, Wisconsin on Sunday. None of the three wins came easy, and it's a long Big 12 road ahead, but it's still an accomplishment for a team that lost 43.4 points, 10.7 rebounds, 7.1 assists and three steals per game with the departures of Andrea Riley and Tegan Cunningham.
Fellow unbeaten Arkansas also took a step toward legitimizing a fast start against a modest schedule with 65-54 win at Utah on Saturday, following a win at UTEP over Thanksgiving weekend and against Middle Tennessee earlier this season. After suffering through a bit of a sophomore slump, at least statistically, C'eira Ricketts seems to be closer to the form that earned her a share of SEC freshman of the year honors two seasons ago.
3. North Dakota State earned a big win. North Dakota State lost by 18 points at home and 25 points on the road against its rival to the south last season, seemingly an indication of how far ahead the Jackrabbits had surged as the two programs make their way in the Division I world. So full points to the Bison for ending a 10-game losing streak against the Jackrabbits with a 78-71 win on the road in Brookings, S.D. Hannah Linz scored 12 points for North Dakota State, which is almost certainly 12 more points than anyone else diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma in April scored this past weekend.
The week ahead
Monday: Having spent the weekend in the Triangle, I can attest that it will be frigid in Durham on Monday night. But hopefully the lure of No. 5 Duke versus No. 7 Texas A&M (ESPN2, 7 p.m. ET) will bring the students out and make Cameron the hot, noisy place of basketball lore. This is a big stage for Aggies guard Sydney Carter, who has been tremendous taking care of the basketball (27 assists, eight turnovers) with Sydney Colson limited. Can Carter keep things running against all the pressure Jasmine Thomas and the Blue Devils will apply? No. 21 Green Bay can't overlook a road trip to Eastern Michigan, which has a good pair of guards in Tavelyn James and Cassie Schrock and gave Ohio State a bit of a game earlier this season.
Tuesday: Speaking of Georgetown and Rodgers, they get another ACC test with a trip to Miami. The Hurricanes missed an opportunity to make a statement early against Nebraska, but they've rolled through some more modest competition in recent weeks. Riquna Williams had significantly more turnovers than assists last season, but she's working with about a three-to-one assist-to-turnover ratio so far this season. It's never too early for a conference game, as DePaul and Pitt get their Big East schedules under way in Pittsburgh. The Blue Demons have been shooting the lights out (37.4 percent from the 3-point line), taking care of the ball and scoring at an Oregon football-like clip, so a conference road game should be a good measuring stick.
Wednesday: Nebraska doesn't get an easy game as it attempts to bounce back from Sunday's surprising loss to Indiana. The Huskers visit in-state foe Creighton. Cal State Bakersfield has dropped three of its past four games to fall to 7-3, but give the Roadrunners credit for playing up with their schedule, beating San Diego State and Oregon this season. Fresno State's visit is a rare chance to get a big game at home. (Bakersfield also will play Dayton at home three days before Christmas.) Albany transfer Britney McGee has an interesting line so far for Bakersfield, averaging 7.5 3-point attempts per game but also 5.8 rebounds.
Thursday: Iowa consistently produces some good players, but you're not talking about the Lake Baikal of recruiting. Which is another way of saying it's nice to have bragging rights when Iowa (six Iowa natives on the roster) and Iowa State (five Iowa natives) meet. Iowa showed some resolve in bouncing back from a tough loss at North Carolina to beat Kansas State three days later. Lauren Mansfield, the Cyclones' latest Aussie import, is shooting 47.6 percent (10-of-21) from the 3-point line and 30 percent from inside the arc -- not to mention seven assists per game. Xavier again proves it will go anywhere and play anyone with a trip to Murfreesboro, Tenn., to play Middle Tennessee (ESPN3.com, 8 p.m. ET). The Blue Raiders have hit 48 3-pointers in seven games, and the starting trio of Anne Marie Lanning, Tina Stewart and Kortni Jones has 46 of them.
Friday: It might not fall under the marquee heading, but Oakland visits Toledo in a nonconference tilt between teams likely to be in the mix for their respective automatic NCAA bids.BOSTON -- As the losses mounted and the seats in Conte Forum went unfilled this season, it became more and more apparent that the marriage between Boston College and men's basketball coach Steve Donahue wasn't going to last.
The divorce is now final, as BC athletic director Brad Bates announced Donahue's firing on Tuesday -- the day the 2014 NCAA tournament officially began -- and held a news conference to discuss the move.
"In trying to project the future you have to take what information you have at your fingertips and make a decision in the best interest of the program," Bates said. "And we've decided to make a change in our leadership."
Donahue scheduled aggressively ahead of the 2013-14 season, believing the pieces were in place to make a run at the NCAA tournament. But that optimistic view never materialized and the Eagles trudged to an 8-24 record that included a 4-14 mark in ACC play.
In four seasons in the Heights, Donahue compiled a 54-76 record. After going 21-13 in his first season -- with a roster mostly assembled by his predecessor, Al Skinner -- Donahue never posted another winning season at BC.
Steve Donahue went 54-76 in four seasons at Boston College. Adam Hunger/Getty Images
Donahue, 51, was hired in 2010 by former athletic director Gene DeFilippo after taking Cornell to the Sweet 16. But in his last three seasons at BC, the Eagles went 9-22, 16-17 and 8-24 as he was unable to restock the roster with ACC-caliber talent.
"I think you've probably seen me enough to know that I'm very open to people's thoughts and perspectives," Bates said when asked about public opinion affecting the decision. "Either way this decision went, it would disappoint constituents from Boston College. Those of you who know Steve know that he is a tremendous individual. Either way this went there were going to be people who were disappointed."
Donahue broke the news to the players, Bates said, but the AD addressed the team immediately afterward.
"We didn't talk about process at this point," he said, "but I planted some questions in their heads to think about and we're going to get together and talk about those."
The search for a new coach will begin immediately.
"In the next 24 hours, we're going to begin a needs assessment for our program, and out of that we'll have a profile of the type of coach we're looking for," Bates said. "There are a lot of great coaches out there, not every great coach is a great fit for every school, particularly BC. So we need to identify a profile of the specific coaches that can really lead us at this moment in time."
This is the second major coaching search Bates will oversee in Chestnut Hill, after the AD fired Frank Spaziani and hired Steve Addazio to head the Eagles' football program. BC went from 2-10 in the final season under Spaziani to 7-6 and a berth in the AdvoCare V100 Bowl in the first season under Addazio.
Bates said he learned a lot from the process that ended in Addazio's hiring, including the importance of involving the current players in the decision-making process.
While he wants to move quickly, Bates said he won't be hasty.
"This is a long-term decision and you can't hurry into some spontaneous decision," he said. "So we need to move as quickly as possible, but we need to be very deliberate in terms of the timing of the process."
Asked about the futures of Donahue's assistants, Bates said he's always believed that a head coach should have "autonomy" when it comes to who he surrounds himself with in his program.
As of now, the only player the Eagles are guaranteed to lose from the 2013-14 roster is senior Danny Rubin -- a former walk-on. But star guard Olivier Hanlan is testing the NBA waters and there have been reports that if Hanlan leaves, other players such as Ryan Anderson and Joe Rahon could follow.
"Whenever you have a change in leadership, you worry about attrition," Bates said. "These students clearly know that we care about them genuinely. Boston College has an incredible diploma, it's a great institution. We have a lot to offer these students. They know that. But as I said whenever you have a change in leadership, you worry about attrition."
And though some might expect the Eagles to go for a loud hire in an attempt to energize the fan base, that's not Bates' style.
"I don't think you need the splash," he said. "I'm not interested in short-term enthusiasm at the expense of long-term substance. You need to hire whoever is going to best fit what the program needs at this moment in time."
Jack McCluskey is an editor for ESPN.com and a frequent contributor to ESPNBoston.com.Illinois senior point guard Tracy Abrams will miss the 2014-15 season after suffering a torn ACL in his right knee during preseason drills, the school announced Thursday.
Point guard Tracy Abrams averaged 10.7 points and 3.2 assists for the Illini as a junior last season. Brian Spurlock/USA TODAY Sports
Abrams, who averaged 10.7 points last season, will redshirt this season and return to complete his eligibility in 2015-16.
Surgery to repair the injury has yet to be scheduled.
Abrams led the Illini in assists (3.2 per game) and was second in scoring.
"Tracy worked hard in the offseason to put himself in great position heading into his senior year, so he's obviously disappointed and we are for him as well," coach John Groce said in a statement. "But Tracy personifies toughness. He has the heart of a champion and I know that he will only come back stronger from this experience when he returns to the court next year. In the meantime, he will continue to play a vital role for our program with his leadership."
Oregon State transfer Ahmad Starks will likely fill the void at point guard as the Illini attempt to win at least 20 games for the third consecutive season.
Starks averaged 10.4 points and 2.3 assists for the Beavers in 2012-13. He also shot 39 percent from beyond the 3-point line that season.Illinois-Chicago has decided to part ways with coach Howard Moore after five seasons, the school announced Tuesday.
Moore, 44, replaced Jimmy Collins in 2010 and was just 33-62 overall and 12-40 in league play in his first four seasons. He was forced to make changes on his coaching staff after last season, and the Flames were just 10-24 and 4-12 in Horizon League play.
Moore came to UIC from Wisconsin, where he was an assistant under Bo Ryan from 2005 through 2010.Northwestern fired Bill Carmody on Saturday after 13 years, the school announced.
Northwestern athletic director Jim Phillips gathered the team together Saturday morning in Evanston, Ill., to break the news.
Carmody finished 13-19 overall this season, 4-14 in the Big Ten and lost to Iowa in the Big Ten tournament in Chicago this week.
The Wildcats failed to make an NCAA tournament under Carmody but did go to the NIT four times. Northwestern has never made the NCAAs, the only program in a power six conference never to make the field.
"Look at 13 years. Athletic success does matter. It should matter," Phillips said. "We were here a year ago. One of the key differences was, we were down to one year on Bill's contract. I didn't feel an extension was warranted. It would have been really detrimental to the program, to Bill or his staff to try to recruit with less than a year on his contract.
"So the combination of those factors resulted in us making the decision to make a change."
Carmody came to Northwestern in 2000 after four years at Princeton.
The Wildcats, riddled with injuries the past two seasons, will likely look at Duke associate head coach Chris Collins, who is from Northbrook, Ill., and according to sources, is interested. Lehigh's Brett Reed is also expected to be a strong candidate.
The Wildcats lost three of their top players this season, one at the beginning of the season to a season-long suspension in JerShon Cobb, two others to season-ending injuries after 10 games (Drew Crawford) and 24 games (Jared Swopshire).
"It was really tough. It was a tough decision," Phillips said. "Bill's a terrific person, and he did a terrific job here. As I mentioned twice, he's elevated our basketball program. But you have to go back to there being a better destination. Certainly, there's some inherent risks in that, but it was time for a change."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.Illinois State forward Jon Ekey said Tuesday he will transfer to Illinois for his final season.
Ekey, a 6-foot-7, 220-pound redshirt junior forward, will be immediately eligible at Illinois as he will pursue a graduate degree unavailable at Illinois State. He also received interest from Boston College, Creighton, Nevada, Purdue, among others schools after recently announcing he was leaving Illinois State.
"I just think it's the Big Ten," Ekey said of his decision to attend Illinois. "It's one of the conferences growing up I wish I could play in. It has some of the best teams in the country. It's close to where I've been the last four years. I have a lot of my friends here. Illinois has a great business school. It's just a great school.
"Being able to go somewhere I could use my skills that I have as a stretch 4-man and just for a team that wanted to use what I can do was important. I can contribute in any way whether it's starting or coming off the bench and scoring."
Ekey played in 33 games, including making 18 starts, and averaged 6.5 points, 4.2 points, one block and 22.9 minutes for Illinois State last season. He was 31 of 89 from 3-point range for a .348 percentage. He scored in double digits in 10 games. He started in 57 games as a freshman and sophomore.
Ekey said his previous relationship with Illinois assistant coach Paris Parham, previously an assistant at Illinois State, and his interest to play for Illinois coach John Groce also helped in his decision.
"(Groce) just has that energy," Ekey said. "He makes you feel excited about the plans he has for you. He made me feel excited about next season, wish next season would start already."
Ekey and returning guard Joseph Bertrand will be the lone seniors on next year's Illinois team. Ekey said he hoped to be able to help the team with his leadership.
"I'm hoping to go in and be a leader," Ekey said. "That's one of the things coach Groce has been saying to me. I was in a leadership role here at Illinois State. I was a captain here. I went through a lot of things here. Hopefully, I can help them."
Ekey is the second transfer Illinois has received in the past week. Seton Hall sophomore guard Aaron Cosby committed to transfer to Illinois on Friday.
Along with Ekey, Illinois will also have five incoming freshmen and Rayvonte Rice, who sat out last season after transferring from Drake, eligible to play to play next season. ESPN ranked the Illini's 2013 recruiting class at No. 18 in the country.CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -- The University of Illinois has sold the naming rights for Assembly Hall to State Farm Insurance Co.
In a 30-year, $60 million agreement announced Monday, the home of the university's basketball teams will be known immediately as State Farm Center. The change comes as the 50-year-old arena undergoes a renovation that is scheduled to be completed in the fall of 2016.
Athletic director Mike Thomas says the university is proud of the new relationship with State Farm. He added the insurance company, headquartered in Bloomington, is "one of the most respected corporate brands in the world."Western Michigan freshman forward Darius Paul announced on Twitter on Saturday that he will follow in his older brother Brandon's footsteps and transfer to Illinois.
Darius Paul, a 6-foot-8, 220-pound forward, was the MAC Freshman of the Year averaging 10.4 points and 5.7 rebounds last season. He decided to transfer because of a coaching staff change and the desire to play at a higher level, according to his mother.
Darius also had offers from Florida, Iowa State, Marquette, Miami (Fla.), Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada and others since receiving his release from Western Michigan. He will have to sit out next season per NCAA rules and will have three years of eligibility remaining.
Darius attended Illinois' postseason banquet with Brandon, an Illinois senior, on Saturday. Brandon, a 6-4 guard, started 89 games in four seasons for the Illini. He was voted an All-Big Ten third-team selection as a junior and a senior.
Paul's mother, Lynda, wrote in an email last week that she would be OK if Darius decided on Illinois.
"If Illinois wants Darius, we would be very happy to give Darius our blessings to go there," Lynda wrote. "We love the University of Illinois and the current coaching staff."
Paul is the third transfer Illinois has received since the end of the season. Illinois State junior forward Jon Ekey and Seton Hall sophomore guard Aaron Cosby also recently opted for the Illini.
Illinois has received five transfers since coach John Groce took over the program prior to last season. Rayvonte Rice (Drake) and Sam McLaurin (Coastal Carolina) joined the team before the season.
The Illini's 2013 recruiting class, ranked No. 18 by ESPN, also includes five high school seniors -- shooting guard Kendrick Nunn, small forward Malcolm Hill, power forward Austin Colbert, center Maverick Morgan and point guard Jaylon Tate.Chicago Whitney Young High School center Jahlil Okafor, ESPN's No. 1-ranked junior, announced Wednesday a list of eight schools he's still considering in his recruitment.
Jahlil Okafor may want to play collegiately with Chicago Curie junior power forward Cliff Alexander. Kelly Kline/Getty Images
Okafor tweeted that his final list of schools -- in alphabetical order -- consists of Arizona, Baylor, Duke, Illinois, Kentucky, Kansas, Michigan State and Ohio State.
The 6-foot-11, 270-pound Okafor averaged 21 points and nine rebounds during his junior season. He finished second to Simeon senior Jabari Parker, a Duke recruit, in the voting for Illinois' Mr. Basketball.
Illinois was a surprise to some to be included on Okafor's final list, but Mac Irvin Fire coach Mike Irvin, Okafor's club coach, said the Illini's status had improved in recent weeks.
"Jahlil went back to the drawing board, looked at his recruiting, talked to his dad and family," Irvin said. "After looking at everything, looking at the style of play, the great job coach [John] Groce has done at Illinois, he could see himself playing at Illinois.
"They definitely have a legitimate shot at getting him. Jahlil, he's really taking his recruiting seriously and has analyzed a few things in the past couple weeks. Every school on the list he's serious about going to."
Illinois is also recruiting Okafor's club teammate, Chicago Curie junior power forward Cliff Alexander, who is ranked No. 8 by ESPN. Irvin said Okafor and Alexander could end up together at Illinois.
"I could see that," Irvin said. "I could see them playing for the state school. I think they're the two best players in the country, period."
Okafor and Apple Valley (Minn.) point guard Tyus Jones, ESPN's No. 2-ranked senior, also have previously said they would like to play together in college. Jones' list of finalists includes Baylor, Duke, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan State, Minnesota and Ohio State.Former Illinois forward Myke Henry said Saturday he is transferring to DePaul.
Henry, a 6-foot-6, 230-pound forward, averaged 3.2 points and 10.6 minutes in 35 games during his sophomore season at Illinois last year. He will sit out next season and have two years of eligibility remaining per NCAA rules.
"I really like what they have to offer me," Henry wrote in a text. "I like the style of play that the coaches run. I like it because it's a new start for me, and I think I can really help them get this thing off the ground."
Henry attended Orr High School in Chicago and was ranked No. 97 in the country in the Class of 2011 by ESPN. He played club basketball for the Mac Irvin Fire, which is also the program that current DePaul forward Jamee Crockett and Blue Demons recruits Billy Garrett Jr. and Thomas Hamilton Jr. played for in high school.
"I think he will be in a good situation at DePaul," Mac Irvin Fire coach Mike Irvin said of Henry. "He will play a lot of minutes when he is eligible. Excellent pickup by [DePaul assistant coach] Billy Garrett."
Henry joins Garrett Jr., who is ranked No. 94 in ESPN's Class of 2013, Hamilton Jr., South Plains College (Texas) sophomore center Forrest Robinson, Citrus Junior College (Calif.) sophomore power forward Greg Sequele and Oak Hill Academy (Va.) senior guard R.J. Curington in DePaul's recruiting class.