CHICAGO -- Chicago Blackhawks goaltender Ray Emery has done something no NHL goaltender has done before, but you wouldn’t know that by talking to him.
Emery is the first NHL goaltender to start off a season with 12 consecutive wins. He improved to 12-0-0 by making 16 saves and shutting out the Calgary Flames in a 2-0 victory on Tuesday.
Emery’s coach and teammates find his historic start to be remarkable, but Emery has reacted to it as if it’s an every-season occurrence. When asked about it following Tuesday’s win, he didn’t give any sign he was happy about his streak. He remained emotionless and answered as straight forward as if he was being asked his social security number.
“I just take it one start at a time,” Emery said.
Whatever works for Emery is fine by the Blackhawks. Because whether Emery had to step in to make consecutive starts when Corey Crawford was injured in February or he’s had to patiently wait his turn for a chance in net (his last start prior to Tuesday came on March 18), Emery has provided consistency every time out.
With Tuesday’s performance, Emery lowered his goals-against average to 2.09 and raised his save percentage to .920. Tuesday was also his first shutout since Feb. 1, 2010, which he had as a Philadelphia Flyer against the Flames.
If Crawford, who has a 2.02 goal-against average and .922 save percentage, wasn’t playing so well, Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville might just have a goalie controversy on hands. Instead Quenneville has had the luxury of having two of the league’s top goaltenders this season.
Unlike Emery, Quenneville gushed at the 12 consecutive wins.
“That’s a nice number, that’s a great stat,” Quenneville said. “I thought he had a great game tonight. He’s played two remarkable games against these guys. I thought he was very quick and very big in the net.”
Blackhawks defenseman Nick Leddy provided another adjective for Emery.
“He’s been awesome,” Leddy said. “You don’t really know how to describe it. Both of our goalies have been playing great. It gives us consistency.”ROCKFORD, Ill. -- Chicago Blackhawks forward prospect Mark McNeill probably gets his first NHL call-up if he remains healthy for another week or two in November.
McNeill had been on roll for the AHL's Rockford IceHogs in the season’s first 14 games. He had produced nine goals and seven assists. But then his season was knocked off its tracks when he suffered a knee injury while blocking a shot on Nov. 15. Just as McNeill went down, the Blackhawks were dealing with their own injury issues and shuffling their lineup. Luck wasn't on his side.
Mark McNeill is still working toward his first NHL call-up. Claus Andersen/NHLPA/Getty Images
“He had an unfortunate injury at a time when we were making some changes in our roster, calling some guys up,” Blackhawks assistant general manager Norm Maciver said recently. “He blocked a shot in a game against Milwaukee, and he was out for four weeks. Prior to that, that line of [Garret] Ross, [Philip] Danault and McNeill had been exceptional. Mark was a big part of that.”
McNeill is still waiting on his first NHL call-up, but his missed chance in November doesn’t bother him. He remains confident his time will come, and he’s planning for a long NHL career once it does.
“I got injured. That’s just the way it is," said the 22-year-old McNeill, a Blackhawks’ 2011 first-round draft choice. "Now it’s behind me. I still got to keep working toward that first call-up.
“I’m hungry. I want the opportunity. But nothing is going to be handed to me. I got to work for everything. That’s a goal of mine I’m still excited to achieve.”
McNeill’s injury not only impacted his NHL opportunity, but also his game. He sat out a month due to the injury and didn’t immediately return to form. He had five goals and four assists in his first 26 games back from the injury. He finally got into a groove again in late February and has had six goals and five assists in the last 13 games.
The Blackhawks have liked the way McNeill, a right winger, has progressed in his second full professional season. What they especially asked of him this season was to play the same from shift to shift. His play varied too much last season.
“I think the biggest thing with Mark is the consistency,” Maciver said. “It’s’ more shift-in and shift-out. When you have that kind of size and skating ability, the expectation now is you want to see that shift-in and shift-out, game in and game out, and that’s where he’s getting to. He’s probably not quite there yet, but he’s pretty getting close to that. He’s had a very, very solid season.”
McNeill addressed his consistency by watching more video and also working to keep his mind on-point between shifts.
Aside from consistency, IceHogs coach Ted Dent has noticed McNeill become a more dangerous offensive player. Being 6-foot-2 and 218 pounds, McNeill has a size advantage, but it’s been a process on how to utilize it better.
“I’ve just seen more confidence in his ability, especially offensive with the puck,” said. “He uses his speed a lot more this year. I think wide speed going down on defensemen. You know he winds it up and he gets going and he’s tough to stop because he’s a big man and he can skate. When he gets going around the other team’s defensemen, he’s not an easy guy to take down. I’ve seen a confidence in his skating and his ability to make plays with the puck.”
McNeill hopes continuing to do that will eventually earn him a place in the NHL. With the Blackhawks likely having to make a move or two from their current in the upcoming offseason to alleviate their salary cap situation, a spot could open up for McNeill. His focus isn’t on the future now, though.
“You can look ahead like that,” McNeill said. “You can make assumptions on what they’re going to do. But at the end of the day, I’m just playing hockey right here in Rockford. Day by day, game by game, trying to get better, trying to help my team, and I’ll worry about that when the time comes.”A report on NHL ticket prices says the Dallas Stars have cheapest average ticket among the league’s 30 teams at $29.95.
The Team Marketing Report study also has the Stars with the cheapest Fan Cost Index at $223.78 for a game.
A couple of notes on these numbers:
The average ticket price is for what is called general seating categories. The Stars’ average price for a premium ticket is $94.38, which is still a good value when compared to the rest of the league, ranking 26th among the 30 NHL teams.
The Fan Cost Index includes four average-price tickets, two small draft beers, four small soft drinks, four regular-sized hotdogs, parking, two programs and two adult-sized caps.
The highest ticket in the league belongs to the Toronto Maple Leafs at $123.77 and the Maple Leafs also are tops in Fan Cost Index at $626.45.
The average NHL ticket is $57.10 and the average Fan Cost Index is $326.45.
Below is a list of each team’s average ticket price in the general seating category. You can see a PDF document with all the Team Marketing Report numbers for the NHL teams here.
NHL Ticket Prices 2011-12
Average NHL Ticket Prices (general seating categories) according to Team Marketing Report.From the official NHL release:
ANDERSON, KLEFBOM AND POINT NAMED THREE STARS OF THE WEEK
NEW YORK (April 10, 2017) – Ottawa Senators goaltender Craig Anderson, Edmonton Oilers defenseman Oscar Klefbom and Tampa Bay Lightning center Brayden Point have been named the Three Stars for the week ending April 9.
FIRST STAR – CRAIG ANDERSON, G, OTTAWA SENATORS
Anderson went 3-0-1 with a 1.44 goals-against average, .943 save percentage and one shutout to guide the Senators (44-28-10, 98 points) to seven out of a possible 10 standings points and a second-place finish in the Atlantic Division. He made 29 saves in a 5-4 shootout loss to the Detroit Red Wings April 3. Anderson bounced back with his 38th career shutout, stopping all 24 shots he faced in a 2-0 triumph over the Red Wings April 4. He closed the season with two more wins, making 28 saves in a 2-1 shootout victory against the Boston Bruins April 6 and 18 stops in a 3-1 triumph over the New York Rangers April 8. The 35-year-old Park Ridge, Ill., native posted a 25-11-4 record with a 2.28 goals-against average, .926 save percentage and five shutouts in 40 outings in 2016-17.
SECOND STAR – OSCAR KLEFBOM, D, EDMONTON OILERS
Klefbom led the NHL with seven assists/points in four games to propel the Oilers (47-26-9, 103 points) to three victories and a second-place finish in the Pacific Division. He collected one helper in a 6-4 loss to the Los Angeles Kings April 4. Klefbom then registered a career-high four assists – the most by an Oilers defenseman since Dec. 31, 2005 (Chris Pronger) – in a 4-2 triumph over the San Jose Sharks April 6. He capped 2016-17 with one helper in each of his last two appearances, a 3-2 victory against the Vancouver Canucks April 8 and 5-2 win over the Canucks April 9. The 23-year-old Karlstad, Sweden, native notched career highs in goals (12), assists (26), points (38) and games played (82) this season, his fourth in the NHL.
THIRD STAR – BRAYDEN POINT, C, TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING
Point shared second place in the NHL with 4-2—6 in four games as the Lightning (42-30-10, 94 points) wrapped up their season with three victories in four starts. After being held off the scoresheet in a 4-0 loss to the Boston Bruins April 4, Point bounced back with two goals – his second career multi-goal performance – in a 4-1 triumph over the Toronto Maple Leafs April 6. He added one assist in a 4-2 win against the Montreal Canadiens April 7 before closing the season with a career-high three points (2-1—3), including the decisive goal, in a 4-2 victory over the Buffalo Sabres April 9. The 21-year-old Calgary native finished 2016-17 eighth among rookies with 18-22—40 in 68 contests.From the official NHL release:
ANDERSON, KLEFBOM AND POINT NAMED THREE STARS OF THE WEEK
NEW YORK (April 10, 2017) – Ottawa Senators goaltender Craig Anderson, Edmonton Oilers defenseman Oscar Klefbom and Tampa Bay Lightning center Brayden Point have been named the Three Stars for the week ending April 9.
FIRST STAR – CRAIG ANDERSON, G, OTTAWA SENATORS
Anderson went 3-0-1 with a 1.44 goals-against average, .943 save percentage and one shutout to guide the Senators (44-28-10, 98 points) to seven out of a possible 10 standings points and a second-place finish in the Atlantic Division. He made 29 saves in a 5-4 shootout loss to the Detroit Red Wings April 3. Anderson bounced back with his 38th career shutout, stopping all 24 shots he faced in a 2-0 triumph over the Red Wings April 4. He closed the season with two more wins, making 28 saves in a 2-1 shootout victory against the Boston Bruins April 6 and 18 stops in a 3-1 triumph over the New York Rangers April 8. The 35-year-old Park Ridge, Ill., native posted a 25-11-4 record with a 2.28 goals-against average, .926 save percentage and five shutouts in 40 outings in 2016-17.
SECOND STAR – OSCAR KLEFBOM, D, EDMONTON OILERS
Klefbom led the NHL with seven assists/points in four games to propel the Oilers (47-26-9, 103 points) to three victories and a second-place finish in the Pacific Division. He collected one helper in a 6-4 loss to the Los Angeles Kings April 4. Klefbom then registered a career-high four assists – the most by an Oilers defenseman since Dec. 31, 2005 (Chris Pronger) – in a 4-2 triumph over the San Jose Sharks April 6. He capped 2016-17 with one helper in each of his last two appearances, a 3-2 victory against the Vancouver Canucks April 8 and 5-2 win over the Canucks April 9. The 23-year-old Karlstad, Sweden, native notched career highs in goals (12), assists (26), points (38) and games played (82) this season, his fourth in the NHL.
THIRD STAR – BRAYDEN POINT, C, TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING
Point shared second place in the NHL with 4-2—6 in four games as the Lightning (42-30-10, 94 points) wrapped up their season with three victories in four starts. After being held off the scoresheet in a 4-0 loss to the Boston Bruins April 4, Point bounced back with two goals – his second career multi-goal performance – in a 4-1 triumph over the Toronto Maple Leafs April 6. He added one assist in a 4-2 win against the Montreal Canadiens April 7 before closing the season with a career-high three points (2-1—3), including the decisive goal, in a 4-2 victory over the Buffalo Sabres April 9. The 21-year-old Calgary native finished 2016-17 eighth among rookies with 18-22—40 in 68 contests.At this point (granted, it's very early), the top of the 2017 draft class looks to be below average. Nolan Patrick is a decent No. 1 prospect, but he is not at the level of top guys in the past two classes, such as Connor McDavid, Jack Eichel, Auston Matthews and Patrik Laine.
The rest of the top prospects are solid, but they don’t rise to the levels we’ve seen the past two seasons. Congrats to the new Las Vegas franchise, it appears you aren't so ... lucky. Anyway, on to the rankings:Last week we looked at the Atlantic GMs and this week we're focusing on the Northeast Division, which is an interesting case study on longtime GMs. Outside of Boston Bruins GM Peter Chiarelli, the other four guys have collectively participated in more than 50 drafts -- but they all got here in different ways, and it's reflected in their drafting success. The issue here, though, is sustainability.
Buffalo Sabres GM Darcy Regier has been able to maintain success with one club since 1997 because he can find value without great draft position. Theoretically, it means a team can continue to be good without receding into the lottery to stock up on talent. There's a reason he's been with one team for so long.
In comparison, Toronto Maple Leafs GM Brian Burke can't, for the life of him, find value in the late rounds. But he sure knows what to do with those early first-rounders -- but those only come with a bad team. And Ottawa Senators GM Bryan Murray has found All-Stars with the mid-to-late first-rounders, which is harder than it sounds -- and extremely valuable when your team is flirting with the playoffs each year.
However, the guy who has made everyone else look bad is Montreal Canadiens GM Pierre Gauthier, statistically the best drafting GM of the past two decades. He had a little secret in the '90s that led to a ton of success -- but his peers are catching up, so he might need a new strategy to survive. Just to review, here are the ground rules:
1. We're not judging the GMs based simply on the quality of players they have drafted. Because a guy with four top-five picks will always fare better than someone who consistently drafts late in the first round. So, instead, we're looking at how well they've drafted relative to their draft position.
2. We know some GMs let their scouts make the final calls on draft day, but they still are responsible for the picks.
3. We're looking at drafts from 1990 to 2008. Recent drafts are discounted because the jury is out on the large majority of those picks.
4. Metrics are based on Tom Awad's GVT, which is an advanced stat that encompasses all aspects of the game.
With that in mind, let's dive into the Atlantic. The general managers are ranked in descending order.
5. Peter Chiarelli
Value added per pick: -1.03 GVT/season
Drafts: Boston Bruins (2007-present)
Top picks: Joe Colborne (No. 16), Zach Hamill (No. 8)
Chiarelli's low metrics are due to a small sample size, since he drafted only 12 players before 2009. So Colborne and Hamill aren't actually very good picks -- not yet at least -- but they're the only two guys who have done anything in the NHL. However, Chiarelli has two things going for him. First off, he took over a squad with a good amount of talent, thanks to predecessor Mike O'Connell who found great value in David Krejci (No. 63) and Patrice Bergeron (No. 45), so there wasn't a huge amount of pressure in finding quick help. Secondly, unlike other GMs who have strong squads, Chiarelli has actually had high draft picks to work with. He's had three top-10 picks, including the No. 2 overall pick in 2010 (Tyler Seguin), thanks to the Phil Kessel trade. Now, as long as the Bruins are good, that probably won't last and, to maintain success, he'll have to find solid NHLers in places where it's statistically unlikely.
4. Brian Burke
Value added per pick: : -0.03 GVT/season
Drafts: Toronto Maple Leafs (2009-present), Anaheim Ducks (2005-2008), Vancouver Canucks (1998-2003), Hartford Whalers (1992-1993)
Top picks: Manny Legace (No. 188), Ryan Kesler (No. 23), Kevin Bieksa (No. 151), Henrik Sedin (No. 3), Daniel Sedin (No. 2)
Burke has been a mediocre drafter at his four stops, mostly because he can't find good value in the late rounds. He hasn't found an above-average NHLer outside the first round other than Bieksa, Marek Malik (No. 72) and Andrei Nikolishin (No. 47) -- and that's out of 102 picks before 2008. However, what Burke does do is convert his first-round picks. It started with Chris Pronger (No. 2) in 1993, and then he landed both Sedins after some draft-day haggling. Add Bobby Ryan (No. 2) and Kesler to the list, and those are some pretty good players on his résumé. However, maintaining success requires GMs to find good players without good draft position, and Burke has shown he's not very good at that. In any case, the anti-numbers Burke may not care for these metrics-based rankings.
3. Bryan Murray
Value added per pick: 0.25 GVT/season
Drafts: Ottawa Senators (2007-present), Anaheim Ducks (2002-03), Florida Panthers (1995-2000), Detroit Red Wings (1991-93)
Top picks: Ryan Getzlaf (No. 19), Corey Perry (No. 28), Dan McGillis (No. 238), Jaroslav Spacek (No. 117)
He's made 115 picks from 1990 to 2008, and there's good news and bad news. First the bad: Only 24 percent of his picks play 82 NHL games, which is mediocre. But that almost doesn't matter, because of how much value that 24 percent yields. We often overestimate the value of mid-to-late first-round picks, but in reality it's incredibly hard to find above-average players in those slots. However, in Murray's four stops, he drafted Getzlaf, Perry, Erik Karlsson (No. 15), Radek Dvorak (No. 10), Anders Eriksson (No. 22) and Martin Lapointe (No. 10). In addition, he's found some good value in the late rounds, nabbing McGillis, Spacek, Mike Knuble (No. 76), Filip Kuba (No. 192) and Chris Osgood (No. 54). He's statistically one of the better drafting GMs in the past 20 years, and he's been able to find star players with just one top-10 pick (No. 7, 2002, Joffrey Lupul) which is good news for the Senators, who need to find a way to get out of the mid-to-late lottery.
2. Darcy Regier
Value added per pick: 0.51 GVT/season
Drafts: Buffalo Sabres (1997-present)
Top picks: Ryan Miller (No. 138), Thomas Vanek (No. 5), Derek Roy (No. 32), Jason Pominville (No. 55), Tyler Myers (No. 12)
You don't stay in charge this long without being a great drafter, and Regier is exactly that. He's one of the five best drafting GMs since 1990, and these Sabres have been the sole beneficiary. In fact, if you look at the current Sabres roster, almost all the key players were drafted by Regier -- and it required just one top-10 pick (Vanek). First there's Miller, who was a great find in the fifth round. But then you have a plethora of skaters, including Roy, Pominville, Myers, Drew Stafford (No. 13), Tyler Ennis (No. 26), Nathan Gerbe (No. 142) and Andrej Sekera (No. 71). Regier seems to have a particularly good eye for underrated defensemen, as he's nabbed Myers, Dennis Wideman (No. 241), Brian Campbell (No. 156), Jan Hejda (No. 106) and Keith Ballard (No. 11). In short, he's been able to add talent without great draft position, which is exactly what it takes to keep your job in one place for a long time.
1. Pierre Gauthier
Value added per pick: 0.91 GVT/season
Drafts: Montreal Canadiens (2010-present), Anaheim Ducks (1998-2001), Ottawa Senators (1996-98)
Top picks: Top picks: Marian Hossa (No. 12), Ilya Bryzgalov (No. 44), Magnus Arvedson (No. 119), Sami Salo (No. 239)
Gauthier is statistically the best drafting GM of the past 20 years, and there's a reason for it: He knows he needs to find good value in the draft -- and he knows where to look. He gained a reputation as having a fondness for European players, but that's because Europe has been where NHL teams can find great value. He landed guys like Hossa, Bryzgalov, Arvedson, Salo, Karel Rachunek (No. 229), Andreas Dackell (No. 136) and P.A. Parenteau (No. 264) -- all incredible value picks. He comes from a scouting background with the Quebec Nordiques, and he understands the importance of the draft for teams that don't spend boatloads of money.
In his first GM gig with the thrifty Senators -- when there was no salary cap -- he told the Ottawa Citizen, "The draft is the one place where you're even with all the other teams. It's the one scenario where you're allowed to be better without spending money." He's had only two drafts with the Habs, so the jury is out on any recent success. But he hasn't had a second- or third-round pick in either draft and he's drafted only three European players. NHL teams are doing a better job sifting through talent in Europe these days, so Gauthier might need to change his strategy a bit in Montreal.Bryan McCabe remains unsigned and the stars would really have to align for him to pack his bags at this point.
That's not to say it's not going to happen, but he's settled in South Florida with his family and the kids are in school, so it would need to be a really tempting offer.
A source told ESPN.com that a Western Conference team showed interest within the past week, but it wasn't something that interested the defenseman. He's made plenty of money in his career and has nothing to prove to anyone. If he does sign with a club this season, it has to be a super fit for him.
A source told ESPN.com Wednesday that the New York Rangers are scouring the market looking for help at defense, but they're not interested in bringing back McCabe at this point.
Predators' contract talks
Netminder Pekka Rinne and defenseman Ryan Suter are slated to become unrestricted free agents July 1 and the Predators have no interest in seeing that happen. GM David Poile met with Suter's agent, Neil Sheehy, last weekend and Rinne's agent, Jay Grossman, last week in New York to move talks along on an extension. The Preds will be aggressive in trying to get a deal done on both fronts.
Just like Ilya Kovalchuk's contract talks with Atlanta two years ago were an ongoing story, this has the potential to be the same in Nashville. And that's not even to mention franchise blueliner and captain Shea Weber, who is set to become a restricted free agent this summer. He can't walk free like Rinne and Suter, but it remains a hugely important negotiation that will also draw lots of attention.
Because he signed a one-year deal last summer after going to arbitration, Weber can't sign a new contract until January at the earliest. In the meantime, Weber and his agent, Kevin Epp, will sit back and see how things play out with Suter/Rinne, as well as look at how the team fares this season. All will be factors in Weber's next move.
Doughty update
There haven't been any talks between the Kings and Drew Doughty's veteran agent, Don Meehan, since the eve of camp. But given owner Tim Leiweke's comments to Helene Elliott of the L.A. Times this week and the urgency behind them, it's our guess the NHL club will likely reach out soon to Newport Sports (Meehan's firm) and try to take one last stab at it.
The Kings don't have a choice to try again. It's a big season for them; they want to contend and they need Doughty to do that.
Burke on Simmonds ruling
Toronto Maple Leafs GM Brian Burke, who has become an important voice on gay issues, said he is OK with the league's decision not to discipline Flyers forward Wayne Simmonds.
When asked about it after a recent preseason game, Rangers forward Sean Avery said Simmonds used a homophobic slur toward him on the ice.
"It's like banned substances; you can't suspend a player for using a drug that isn't among the list of banned substances," Burke told ESPN.com. "In this case, we didn't have a rule about homophobic slurs, so you can't suspend Simmonds. But now that the league put out that statement and put players on notice that any future homophobic slur will be punishable, I think that was a real important day for the NHL. It has to stop."
Burke also said he would address the issue with his own players before the regular season begins next week.
Leafs' trade talk
The Leafs' newfound depth, especially on defense, has the club working the phones to see if there's any interest in some of their players. Defenseman Carl Gunnarsson and center Tyler Bozak are among the names that have been discussed, but as of Wednesday, we're told nothing was close with any team. The Leafs could also start the season with eight defensemen on their roster.
Kronwall and the Red Wings
Contract talks are well under way between the Red Wings and star blueliner Niklas Kronwall, who is eligible to become UFA on July 1. Both camps spoke this week. My colleague at TSN, Darren Dreger, also reports the Kronwall camp is looking for a long-term, front-loaded deal similar to what Christian Ehrhoff signed with Buffalo.
Sabres' front-loaded deals
We've encountered some grumbling from a few NHL team executives about the Buffalo Sabres' front-loaded contracts with Ehrhoff and Tyler Myers.
Ehrhoff will earn $18 million of his $40 million, 10-year deal over the next two years. Similarly, Myers' new extension calls for him to earn $12 million of his $38.5 million, seven-year extension in the first year.
"I'm sorry, but that's killing this industry," one NHL GM, requesting anonymity, told ESPN.com. "We have to stop those front-loaded contracts in the next system."
The Sabres didn't break any rules. Other well-heeled clubs have done the same, but mid- to small-market clubs are frustrated, feeling that front-loaded deals have squeezed them out of the free-agent market.
NHLPA's fall tour
Union chief Donald Fehr has begun the NHL Players' Association's annual fall tour. Over the next two months, he'll meet with all 30 teams with the CBA at the top of the agenda. He began his tour last week and so far has met with players on the Flyers, Islanders, Lightning, Panthers and Canadiens.
Emery's future
Ray Emery is slated to get his first full start of the preseason Friday. His performance will go a long way in helping the Blackhawks decide whether they sign the camp invite to a one-year NHL contract to be their backup this season or cut ties and give youngster Alexander Salak the job instead.Craig Custance and Pierre LeBrun take on the hot topics, without the use of oven mitts.
CUSTANCE: Good morning, Pierre. Sadly, this is my final day in beautiful Florida, where I'm headed to BankAtlantic Center to chat with some Bruins and Panthers during the morning skate. But you've already left Florida to take in the biggest game of the night: Rangers versus Penguins. Sidney Crosby is back and that means the Penguins are back as the Eastern Conference favorite as long as they stay healthy. They might just be the league's best team. But before getting into Thursday night's game, I did want to touch on a big win by the Avalanche on Wednesday night. They beat the Sabres in a shootout, giving them three consecutive wins as they continue to cling to the final playoff spot. I think the work of GM Greg Sherman and coach Joe Sacco has been a bit underappreciated this year. Jamie McGinn had another big night and is turning into the best trade deadline addition in the league. Colorado doesn't have many players under contract beyond this season, but that didn't seem to concern Sherman when we chatted Wednesday.
"We'll address that at the end of the season," he said. "It's the blueprint from years ago. We have a plan in place and we're continuing with that plan."
At this point, it's safe to say the plan is working in Colorado.
LEBRUN: Honestly, I had buried the Avs about a month ago. Hats off to a young team that found resolve and resiliency when many people thought they had packed it in. The best part for Colorado is that Semyon Varlamov has been terrific, and the fact the Avs won’t be a lottery team has to make Sherman breathe easier, given the first-round pick he gave up to Washington to get him. Colorado has played three more games than San Jose -- the Sharks are two points behind the eighth-place Avs -- so the odds remain stacked against them making it, but they sure are making it interesting. So are the Winnipeg Jets. They won a must-win game Wednesday night against Dallas and continue to be a different team in the loudest NHL arena. They’re now 22-10-4 at home, the only reason they’ve been able to hang in the playoff race. They’re four points back of eighth and still have a chance, although it’s a long shot. But back to the Bruins, who you will see tonight in Sunrise. What the heck is happening with these guys?
CUSTANCE: Bruins GM Peter Chiarelli didn't hide the frustration with his team after the GM meetings wrapped up on Wednesday. The sting of losing 6-1 to the Lightning was evident, but he said it went beyond that. "When you look at our stretch since the new year, it hasn't been very good. We always look for a big sample size to judge our team. Right now, I have a pretty big sample size," he said. "We're going through a real challenging time right now." He thought fatigue played a part in the Bruins' struggle, but his bigger concern is that the Bruins aren't winning battles, he doesn't like how they're pursuing pucks and he sees too many guys cheating offensively and defensively. "We have to get our heads on straight as to how we approach game to game," he said. "Then it's a mentality you get going into the playoffs. We have to get that back. That's going to take some work." That's an experienced team, and ultimately Chiarelli said he still has faith his team will figure it out. Do you?
LEBRUN: There are some red flags with this Bruins team. Tim Thomas needs to find his A-game. The team's defensive game, which is the bedrock of its success, is porous at best right now. Nathan Horton's absence created a more negative impact in the top-six group than I would have expected. Elite teams should be able to survive those injuries. The Bruins have stumbled more than a team of their level should. Time to look in the mirror and take ownership if you're a core player on that team. This is unacceptable. Someone needs to remind these guys the kind of buy-in and commitment it takes to get back to being the Cup champion squad they are. I might be a little harsh here, but they were way better than this -- injuries or no injuries.
CUSTANCE: Your Sharks are another elite team that has had its struggles and is still looking to regain its swagger before the playoffs begin. Sharks GM Doug Wilson, as is usually the case, had a much more measured response to his team's current position than Chiarelli. He acknowledged that his team hasn't been great lately but preferred to look at the positive -- there's still time to turn things around. "People forget that last year, late January, we were 12th in the Western Conference. We've been through this before and Todd [McLellan] has led our team and the players have led our team to play the right way and go to the final four the last couple years," Wilson told ESPN the Magazine. "The good news is we have a bunch of games left and have our guys back healthy. It's in our own hands, which is the way it should be." The Sharks host the Predators on Thursday night in a big one between two potential Western Conference powers, but San Jose doesn't want to wait too long to string together wins. Nearly every team around them in the standings has superior goaltending, which could be the difference in a tight race. Wilson is optimistic that getting Martin Havlat back in the lineup will provide a boost. "The key to this game is being healthy and playing well at the end of the year. That's the most important thing," he said.
LEBRUN: The Sharks are a mystifying bunch, that's for sure. I was chatting with a GM on Wednesday when out of the blue he turned to me and said, "What's with the Sharks?" He saw the same thing I did last fall, a team that should again contend for the Cup. Like a lot of teams, injuries have hurt. Netminder Antti Niemi has been inconsistent. But overall, I wonder sometimes if they have enough team speed to compete with the elite clubs in the West. Getting Havlat back will certainly help in that department. If he can channel the Martin Havlat circa 2009 playoffs with Chicago, then the Sharks will be an improved team. And know this, you have to think St. Louis and Vancouver -- the top two seeds in the West -- are hoping they're not getting the Sharks in the first round. Bad season or not, the Sharks have been to back-to-back conference finals and they might just use the second season to turn on the engine.
We'll see. Right now they don't look like that team.
Well, I'm off to Madison Square Garden for the morning skates. Apparently there's a big game there tonight.
Cheers, Craig.Could a 60-goal season put Steven Stamkos over the hump for the Hart Trophy?
While Evgeni Malkin of the Pittsburgh Penguins is whole-heartedly deserving of the Hart Trophy talk he’s getting -- especially with Sidney Crosby having been out most of the season -- at least one former Hart winner believes Stamkos also deserves mention.
"For sure, not just the goal scoring but it’s the timely goal scoring," fellow Tampa star Martin St. Louis, the 2003-04 NHL MVP, told ESPN.com Wednesday evening.
He’s had a first-row seat of his linemate again this season -- and what kind of season Stamkos is having: 55 goals and counting going into Thursday night’s game at New Jersey. He’s got six games to score five goals and hit 60.
"Some of the times you’re just thinking, 'If I can just get him the puck,' because you know it’s most likely going to be a goal,” said St. Louis, who is admittedly not completely objective about his teammate. "For me, I know we’re looking like a non-playoff team, but it’s an MVP season."
It will be interesting how the voting for two of the game’s most prestigious trophies goes down. Selected members of the Professional Hockey Writers’ Association vote for the Hart, which goes to the MVP of the league. The players, meanwhile, vote on the Ted Lindsay Award, the NHLPA’s award for the most outstanding player in the regular season.
There’s a difference in the definition of both awards. You have a feeling not making the playoffs will hurt Stamkos more in the Hart voting than in the Lindsay tally.
"Not making the playoffs is not going to help him, that’s for sure," allowed St. Louis. "But if he gets to 60 goals, hopefully he gets at least one of those two awards."
No one has registered 60 goals since Alex Ovechkin scored 65 in 2007-08. What makes Stamkos’ chase of 60 even more daunting is that scoring is down again this season, for the fourth season in a row (from 5.8 goals per game in 2008-09 to 5.4 in 2011-12; both numbers are through 1,153 games). He might end up being the only player with 50-plus goals unless Malkin can score four goals before the end of the regular season.
"His 55 is the new 65," argued one rival NHL scout, who asked for anonymity.
The scout in question recently worked the Lightning-Bruins game in Boston. He came away incredibly impressed.
"He scores on his one-timer even when everyone knows it's coming," said the scout. "He's on another level in terms of finish; few people beat [Tim] Thomas clean with a wrist shot off a wide rush. ... Never underestimate the power and explosiveness that he has developed through his obvious commitment off-ice training -- indicative of his unquenchable desire to be the best.’’
A few years ago, when Stamkos was en route to his first 50-goal season, I spoke with Wayne Gretzky about the lad from Markham, Ontario, and the first thing The Great One pointed to was Stamkos' work ethic.
It was obvious Stamkos had all kinds of all-world skill, "but all that stuff doesn't matter if you don't work hard," Gretzky said at the time. "And he works extremely hard and that's why he's successful."
Stamkos has had the perfect mentor in St. Louis to glean that from. Few players have maximized their talent in this league like he has. The pint-sized winger is the epitome of hard work and dedication, and it’s clear that’s had an effect on Stamkos.
"Stammer has really high expectations of himself, he’s conscious of raising the bar and he’s conscious of what that means the following year and what he has to do," said St. Louis. "To keep that success is even harder. But guys like Stammer are aware of that. They put the time in to give themselves a chance to meet those expectations. That’s why not everybody can do that. You might have the speed but not the shot, you might have the shot but not the speed, you might have the mind but the shot. You need everything to be doing the things that he’s doing. He has it."
That includes making adjustments to your game. One thing that’s noticeable this season is how Stamkos has found a new way to score goals: it’s not just one-timers from the slot, where he’s always been lethal, but he’s become more adept at deflections and shoveling in rebounds.
"I always feel that you have to reinvent yourself every year,’’ St. Louis said. "Obviously, you know where your strong attributes are, you know ways you can score goals. But if you just rely on those ways you know you can score goals, teams are so smart -- there’s so much video in this game -- they’re just going to take it away somewhat. You have to reinvent yourself all the time. You need to find different ways to score goals. And he’s done that. He’s got a lot of goals on tip-ins and in the paint.’’
You may wonder 800 words into this story why it is the man himself isn’t quoted in this story. It’s because I know Stamkos isn’t terribly interested in waxing poetic on his sensational offensive season because his team isn’t playoff-bound. That’s why I chose to have his veteran linemate do the talking for him.
"He has his priorities straight in terms of what’s important," said St. Louis. "He’d trade all those goals to be in the playoffs. That’s why it’s hard to talk about yourself when you’re on the outside looking in. It comes from being humble and going back to how he was brought up. He comes from a good family.’’
It’s clear St. Louis has grown incredibly fond of his young teammate.
"For everything that he’s done already in this league, there could easily be a cockiness about him, but there isn’t,’’ said St. Louis. "I’ve said this many times: He’s a great player and I think he’s an even better person. That’s why you’re happy when a person like that has success. It’s so well-deserved.’’From the official NHL release:
BUFFALO’S FOLIGNO NAMED NHL ROOKIE OF THE MONTH
NEW YORK (April 2, 2012) – Buffalo Sabres left wing Marcus Foligno, who recorded 11 points (six goals, five assists) and compiled a +10 rating in 11 games, has been named the NHL Rookie of the Month for March.
Foligno edged Edmonton Oilers center Ryan Nugent Hopkins (3-9—12 in
15 games), New York Rangers left wing Carl Hagelin (3-8—11 in 17 games), Philadelphia Flyers right wing Matt Read (7-4—11 in 16 games), Chicago Blackhawks center Andrew Shaw (5-6—11 in 14 games) and Colorado Avalanche left wing Gabriel Landeskog (4-7—11 in 16 games) for the award.
Foligno had 5-2—7 and a +6 rating in his first five games after being recalled from Rochester (AHL) March 9, making him the third Sabre in franchise history to record seven or more points in his first six career games (he made his NHL debut Dec. 20). He also joined Teemu Selanne and Evgeni Malkin as the only active players to score five or more goals in their first six NHL games.
Selected by the Sabres in the fourth round (104th overall) of the
2009 NHL Draft, Foligno joins Edmonton Oilers center Ryan Nugent-Hopkins (October and November), New Jersey Devils center Adam Henrique (December), Buffalo center Cody Hodgson (January) and Colorado Avalanche left wing Gabriel Landeskog (February) as Rookie of the Month award winners this season.
Marcus Foligno in March
Date Opponent G A PTS Result
March 10 at Ottawa 1 0 1 4-3 win (shootout)
March 12 MONTREAL 0 1 1 3-2 win (overtime)
March 14 COLORADO 2 0 2 5-4 loss (shootout)
March 17 at Florida 0 1 1 3-2 loss (shootout)
March 19 at Tampa Bay 2 0 2 7-3 win
March 21 MONTREAL 0 0 0 3-0 win
March 23 at NY Rangers 0 2 2 4-1 win
March 24 MINNESOTA 1 0 1 3-1 win
March 27 at Washington 0 0 0 5-1 win
March 30 PITTSBURGH 0 0 0 5-3 loss
March 31 at Toronto 0 1 1 4-3 loss
Totals 6 5 11The award given to the league’s top rookie each year could only be named after the man who served as the first president of the NHL.
Frank Calder gave his life to the sport of hockey.
Calder was born in Bristol, England in 1877. He immigrated to Canada in the early 1900s and taught at a private school in Montreal before becoming a sportswriter. Impressed by Calder’s direct and insightful ways, former Montreal Canadiens owner George Kennedy got Calder elected secretary of the National Hockey Association.
In 1917, the NHA folded and the National Hockey League was formed with Calder picked to be the first president.
Starting in 1933, Calder purchased a trophy and awarded it to the best rookie each season.
Through his 25 years of service to the NHL, Calder is most remembered for helping the league survive during both world wars and the Great Depression, as teams dealt with having fewer players available and franchises were forced to move or fold because of economic struggles.
Calder’s health had deteriorated by 1943 partly because of all of the traveling he did to monitor the game. After Calder collapsed at a league meeting, a plan was made to name Mervyn “Red” Dutton the temporary president so that Calder could take a break. Calder died the day after the motion was passed.
The trophy given to the player “most proficient in his first year of competition” was renamed the Calder Memorial Trophy after Frank Calder’s death in 1943. Calder was also elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1947.
Information from the Hockey Hall of Fame was used in this report.Evgeni Malkin, Ilya Kovalchuk and a list of other Russian and European NHLers, as expected, have found temporary lockout homes in their home countries.
But just where the North American-born stars will end up always provides more intrigue.
Eight years ago, during the previous NHL lockout, Joe Thornton enjoyed playing in Davos, Switzerland -- heck, he met his wife there -- and it should surprise no one that he’s headed there again.
"Yes, just because my wife is from there, she has a home there, we go there five weeks in the summer to see her family and I actually train with Davos when I’m over there," Thornton told ESPN.com over the phone Monday. "I know the team real well, and they know me. It’s a natural fit for me to go back there and play."
Thornton said he’s planning on flying to Switzerland by the end of the week and could play as early as this weekend.
"Hopefully the lockout ends sooner rather than later, but I have to go play," said the San Jose Sharks captain.
Rick Nash joined Thornton in Davos last time around and appears to be doing so again, sources told ESPN.com's Katie Strang. They both had a blast eight years ago, making the most of the lockout.
"If you find the right spot, it can be a real good experience, you meet some nice people and you get to keep playing hockey," Thornton said. "It worked out well for us I thought."
Other big names we checked on Monday:
Of course, you have to start with Sidney Crosby, who told us last week playing overseas was something he was contemplating depending on how long the lockout lasted. Nothing new as of Monday. "Since the question is repeatedly asked about Sidney’s plan to play in Europe now that the lockout in is play, at this time Sidney will continue his training, however, if this status (lockout) continues, he may be exploring other options, but for the moment there is nothing to report," Crosby’s agent, Pat Brisson, told ESPN.com via email.
Star center and Chicago Blackhawks captain Jonathan Toews told ESPN.com via text that, yes, he’s thinking about Europe as a possible option but at this point no decisions have been made.
Star center Claude Giroux of the Philadelphia Flyers told ESPN.com via text message that he’s unsure of his plans. "I just want to play hockey," Giroux said. "Hopefully the NHL is back very soon, if not I'll have to start thinking of another place to play."
New York Rangers star Brad Richards, via text, told ESPN.com that playing overseas was unlikely at the moment, preferring to focus on his workouts on this side of the ocean. But obviously that can change depending on the length of the lockout.
Sharks center Logan Couture told ESPN.com via text that he's likely headed to Geneva of the Swiss League. The deal wasn't done yet Monday but that's where he was hopeful to end up.
Agent Jarrett Bousquet, who along with Kevin Epp at Titan Sports Management negotiated a whopping $110 million, 14-year deal for Shea Weber, told ESPN.com on Monday that playing overseas at this point was an unlikely option for his client, citing costly insurance. The good thing for Weber, by the way, is that his $13 million signing bonus is already in the bank and can’t be touched by the lockout.
Weber’s old defense partner, Minnesota Wild star Ryan Suter, is also staying put for now. Suter’s agent, Neil Sheehy, said via email that Europe was an unlikely option at this point, although it was too early to call.
Jamie Benn’s agent, Rich Evans, said via email that his client, the No. 1 center for the Dallas Stars, will stay here for now.
For so many of these high-end players, insurance is such a factor. For KHL-bound Evgeni Malkin, for example, a source told ESPN.com that he’ll need to pay about $250,000 per year for two years’ worth of coverage on his $9 million salary, although it’s believed the premiums will be paid monthly and can be cancelled without penalty once the NHL lockout is over.
Still, it’s a huge chunk of change and that’s why NHL stars will tread carefully before heading over. Remember, as I wrote in Friday’s blog about the rules of the lockout, an NHL team has the right to suspend a player without pay once the NHL season resumes until he’s fit to play if he injures himself while playing in another league during the lockout.Hockey fans will all remember Hall of Fame bound netminder Dominik Hasek for his sprawling, Gumby-like saves, his propensity for dropping his stick and grabbing the puck with his blocker and occasionally using his melon a la Pele to keep his team in the game.
But thanks to longtime Detroit Red Wings goaltending coach Jim Bedard we also imagine Hasek, who formally announced his retirement at age 47 this week, standing next to McCovey Cove outside AT&T Park in San Francisco hoping to snare a Barry Bonds homer.
“He was crazy about Barry Bonds,” Bedard recalled.
Baseball outings were part of the routine for the Wings’ goaltending team, especially during the team’s annual playoff run since the last lockout.
Hasek, Manny Legace or Chris Osgood, sometimes Jimmy Howard or Joey MacDonald, depending on who had been called up from the AHL at the time, Bedard and often some of the training staff would all pore over the baseball schedules, depending on who the Wings were facing at that point in the playoffs.
There was a trip to see the Dodgers while the Wings were playing the Ducks in Anaheim. And to San Francisco during a series against the San Jose Sharks.
Hasek ended his NHL career with the Red Wings, his second stint with the team, in 2008 as backup to Osgood, who backstopped Detroit to a Stanley Cup championship that spring.
In spite of being supplanted as starter, Hasek remained a faithful supporter of Osgood and a diligent worker in practice.
At that point, Hasek was secure in his position as one of the greatest of all time. He'd already won a Cup with the Wings in 2002. He’d won a gold medal with the Czech Republic in 1998, stunning Canada in a shootout in the quarterfinal. He'd earned six Vezina Trophies and back-to-back Hart Trophies in 1997 and 1998, becoming the first goaltender to earn multiple MVP honors. He was also the runner-up for the Hart, in 1994.
When Darcy Regier took over as GM of the Buffalo Sabres in June 1997, Hasek was in his prime. Hasek was pivotal in keeping the small-market Sabres competitive, leading them to the 1999 Stanley Cup finals, only the second time in franchise history the Sabres have qualified for a Cup finals.
"For us, he was all-important at that time," Regier said this week.
Beyond the importance to the Sabres and his eye-popping statistics, Regier said he thinks Hasek deserves recognition for the creativity he brought to the position as a whole.
"He was beyond his time with respect to how to play the position," Regier said. "He was just an exceptional goaltender."
Bedard agrees.
"Dom threw the book out the window that you don’t have to play a certain way to be successful," Bedard said. "There was almost never a standard Dominik Hasek save."
At a time when the position was dominated by Canadians, Hasek opened the door to a generation of European goaltenders with his unorthodox yet consistently spectacular play.
The fact Hasek was, until recent days, contemplating a return to the NHL in his late 40s merely reinforces the kind of will to win that the native of Pardubice had.
Was Hasek sometimes difficult?
Sources told ESPN.com Hasek remains the only player who has had their day with the Stanley Cup celebration cut short due to bad behavior. And there was the infamous incident when Hasek tried to choke legendary Buffalo writer Jim Kelley over a column questioning Hasek’s mental toughness when Hasek was still with the Sabres. That earned Hasek a three-game suspension and a $10,000 fine. The netminder also feuded with former Sabres head coach Ted Nolan a dispute that contributed to Nolan's departure from Buffalo.
Regier acknowledged that Hasek was different in the way that many exceptional athletes or artists are different.
"Not in a bad way. Just that they’re different," Regier said.
He noted that many nights he could tell from the early moments of a game whether anyone was going to beat Hasek.
"He would be just so locked in. The game appeared to be in slow motion for him," Regier recalled. "It was just a pleasure to see that kind of performer and be around that."
As Hasek's NHL career was winding down in Detroit, Bedard recalled that Hasek never lost his desire to challenge himself.
"He was never satisfied if there was a puck [that beat him] that he should have had," Bedard said. "My toughest thing was getting him off the ice after practice."
Hasek was an exemplary teammate even when, at the end, he gave way to Osgood as the Wings’ starter.
"He was a good partner to Chris Osgood and Manny Legace. He didn’t feel threatened. The only person to threaten Dom was Dom. He was very aware of who he was and what he’d accomplished," Bedard said.
Bedard recalled the Western Conference finals in 2002 against Patrick Roy and the Colorado Avalanche. Roy was considered (and still is, by some) to be the greatest money goaltender of all time. Hasek, who had never won an NHL championship, was keenly aware of that. In Game 6, Colorado head coach Bob Hartley called for a stick measurement on Hasek during a Colorado power play. It was the kind of moment that could have turned the tide in a deciding game. But the measurement failed and the Avs were penalized for delay of game. Hasek denied the Avs en route to a 2-0 victory and the Wings would go on to defeat Colorado in Game 7 and then defeat Carolina in five games, giving Hasek his first ring.
"That really fired him up," Bedard said of the stick measurement.
So, where does Hasek rank overall?
While declining to put a number on Hasek, Regier said he belongs among that very small group of netminders who are the game’s greatest. For Bedard, it’s Hasek and Brodeur, just slightly ahead of Roy.
Figuring in international play and NHL success, "those two guys, to me, they stand above."
Hard to argue that.The Edmonton Oilers are among the eight teams on Buffalo Sabres goaltender Ryan Miller's no-trade list, a source confirmed to ESPN.com on Thursday.
The Oilers are believed to be exploring the goalie market, and Miller is obviously the biggest name out there given that his contract will expire after the season and the Sabres are in rebuilding mode.
However, Miller listed Edmonton as one of his eight no-no teams as part of his modified no-trade clause.
This is not to say it’s impossible that Miller would waive it to go to one of those eight teams, but it certainly gives him control of the situation.
At this point, a source told ESPN.com that there have been no such discussions between the Sabres and Miller about any trade scenarios.
Michal Neuvirth in Washington, Jonas Hiller in Anaheim and Brian Elliott in St. Louis are other potential targets for the Oilers, although nothing appears imminent at this point.Detroit’s off-the-mesh goal last Saturday against Los Angeles was the final piece of evidence in guaranteeing that general managers will discuss expanding video review at the March meeting in Boca Raton.
The goal should never have counted but current video review parameters didn’t allow for the war room in Toronto to overrule it.
That’s almost surely going to change. A league source confirmed expanded video review is already on the GMs’ meeting agenda and current momentum seems to be obvious: there are more GMs than ever in support of handing the Toronto war room expanded video powers.
It’s about wanting to get it right. You don’t want Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals decided by such a goal.
Again Monday night there was a goal that perhaps should not have counted: Joe Pavelski's third-period winner over Calgary. Replays seemed to show Pavelski was offside on the entry into the zone. It’s possible that if GMs OK expanded review in March, that’s the kind of play that could be reviewed and the kind of goal that could be disallowed.
The question is, would the league try to implement expanded video review for this season’s playoffs? There’s a chance that happens, a source said, although certainly far from a certainty.
Getting it down for the playoffs would require the NHLPA and the 30 owners to sign off on whatever the 30 GMs vote on in March.
Vanek's future
It has seemed like a given that Thomas Vanek was headed to the UFA market this summer, so hearing there’s even a chance he might consider re-signing with the New York Islanders is news in itself.
If I had to put money on it, I still think Vanek walks -- which means he probably gets traded by the Islanders before the March 5 deadline -- but truth be told, the 30-year-old star winger has enjoyed his time in Long Island and it has given him some pause for thought.
"There’s no question he has liked his teammates, he has liked his coaches, has been impressed with [Isles GM] Garth Snow and management; two weeks into it he realized there was tons of positives that he liked," Vanek’s agent, the veteran Stephen Bartlett, told ESPN.com on Tuesday. "Does that mean that we’re ready to sign on the dotted line? No that’s still being discussed in a number of ways. They have to make a decision where he fits into their team structure ... and Thomas has to decide whether at this stage of his career if that’s the best spot for him. But his decision in the end won’t reflect at all in the fact that he’s found way more positives than negatives about his experience on the Island. He’s had nothing but positives to say to me about the way he’s been treated."
It’s not an easy decision. Vanek has never been an unrestricted free agent before. That’s always hard for a player to pass up for the first time in his career.
"There are other decisions that he has to make that are partly financial and partly family-oriented; that’s what he’s working through right now," Bartlett said.
At some point, though, Snow needs an answer closer to the March 5 trade deadline.
"I give Garth Snow tremendous credit because even though he gave up a lot to get him, he’s never turned up the screws, he’s given time to let him get to know the Island," Bartlett said. "We understand the business side of things though, if there comes a time where they fall completely out of the playoff picture on top of that if Thomas isn’t ready yet to make that kind of [contract] commitment, we understand there’s a chance that they’ll have to cover their butts and look to see if they can make a deal to recoup some of the assets they gave up. We completely understand that. But no one thinks anything but good things about how the Islanders have treated Thomas."
Kings' wish list
The Kings were 23rd in the NHL in goals per game before Thursday’s match in Columbus.
They need scoring help and they’re exploring the market to see what’s out there.
The obvious suspects are on L.A.'s list of pending UFAs such as Matt Moulson, Vanek and Mike Cammalleri.
Sam Gagner, to a lesser degree, is an option, but with two more years on his deal past this season at a $4.8 million annual average salary, I don’t sense the Kings really being as enamored with that option.
Whatever the case, though, I think the Kings will give it a shot on the rental front between now and March 5 and try to add offense. It’s a must addition on a team that otherwise has brilliant goaltending and plays rock-solid defense.
But they need more goals.
Senators' wishes
Speaking of Moulson, he’s a guy that interests the Ottawa Senators, as well, a source said Tuesday.
But the Senators have to first decide if they’re buyers or not. The next slate of games over the next few weeks will help shape that decision.
If they string together wins, then GM Bryan Murray likely will feel more comfortable being a buyer, and he’s on record stating he’d like to add a top-six forward.
But if the Sens go through a rough patch and lose touch with a wild-card spot, then perhaps he holds off.
If Ottawa does decide it’s a buyer, Moulson absolutely would be among the names on their wish list.There have been a few different explanations of the conditional third-round pick in 2016 that Buffalo got from St. Louis in the Ryan Miller deal.
The full rundown:
If the Blues either re-sign Miller or reach the Western Conference finals, then Buffalo, instead of getting that third-round pick, gets the Blues' first-round pick this June (they have the first-rounder in 2015 from this deal); but St. Louis would then get Minnesota's second-round pick this June (obtained earlier by the Sabres) plus Buffalo's third-round pick this June.
The thinking here for St. Louis is that, although they would be giving up another first, it would be a pick between 27th and 30th overall and they'd be moving back just 15 to 20 slots or so by getting the Wild's second-rounder plus getting an early third-rounder (from Buffalo).
So, under this scenario, the Blues would have three second-round picks this June plus two third-round picks.
That's if they reach the conference finals or re-sign Miller.
If Blues don't advance to the conference finals but sign Miller to an extension after the 2014 draft, the conditional pick becomes a 2016 2nd-round pick.If you think for a moment that the Maple Leafs would ever have a hard time dealing away Phil Kessel because of his contract, think again.
"Are you kidding me?" said one rival Western Conference team executive a few days ago. "If they ever auctioned him off there would be a lot of interest regardless of that contract. The guy can score. It’s hard to find those guys."
It’s believed the Leafs have already heard from a number of teams that have made it clear, if Kessel was indeed in play, they’d be interested. Still, I have to think if and when Toronto went that route -- and I’m not saying it will for sure -- it would be more of a June thing where you can include more teams in the process.
At the end of the day, Leafs management knew weeks ago, even before the bulk of their team's 3-13-0 downfall, that they weren’t good enough to be short-term buyers before the trade deadline. That’s why, regardless of where the Leafs are in terms of a playoff spot closer to March 2, the plan most likely is to go long term with any move, no band-aid/rental wanted here.
In the bigger picture, you must keep in mind what has transpired since Brendan Shanahan took over last spring. The front office has largely been redone with a huge focus on player development and drafting. The real goal here is to ensure that the Leafs drastically improve how they draft and develop players. It means more patience is required from a fan base that certainly has been extremely patient through a decade of futility.
But the only real route to turning around this franchise has less to do with trades (although that’s still important) and more to do with drafting and developing. That takes time.
Hang in there, Leafs fans.NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- The Nashville Predators might have one of those problems that really isn't a problem when the NHL awards finalists are named later this month.
There's a chance the Predators won't have a defenseman on the Norris Trophy finalist list. If that's the case, the reason will likely be because voters couldn't decide between Shea Weber and Roman Josi. Again, it's not really a bad thing when you have two defensemen in that discussion.
Weber is the name more commonly associated with the Norris. He has finished in the top five in voting four times and has been runner-up twice. Josi, 24, has never received a Norris vote in his first three seasons. But the latter is expected to change this season.
When one team executive was asked by ESPN.com for his Norris Trophy winner, he named Josi.
Another team executive didn't go just that far, but Josi certainly has share of admirers around the league. He was seen as a player with a high upside when he was drafted in the second round from Switzerland in 2008, and he's fulfilling that.
Christopher Hanewinckel/USA TODAY Sports
"I think it's fair to say if he wants to, he can move into the upper-echelon defensemen in the league," one team executive said. "I don't know if you can give him 'elite' just yet. He's pretty good. He came in as sort of a guy with a little bit of everything. He's become more of a guy who has a lot of everything. His hockey sense is really good. When he gets it, he moves quick. He's a force on the power play. He forces guys to come with him. He distributes the puck really well.
"Defensively in his own end, same thing. You don't have to be an overpowering guy if you know where to make the right moves. He seems defensively to know how to fight the battles he has to fight his way and can put himself in the right position on the ice to block and prevent plays from ever happening.”
It's on the defensive end where Josi has put more and more time in the past few seasons. His offensive game has always come easier to him. Through experience and paying attention to detail, he's found himself to be an improved defensive defenseman.
Predators coach Peter Laviolette hasn't been afraid to test Josi in defensive situations throughout the season. Josi had more neutral- and defensive-zone faceoff starts this season than in past ones. He had just a 45.62 offensive-zone starting percentage, and he often faced quality competition, evident in that his Corsi competition percentage was 50.19.
Josi held more than his own despite those responsibilities. He led the league's defensemen with a plus-24 goal differential. He was on the ice for 68 goals for and 44 goals against in 5-on-5 situations. He was 13th in the league (minimum 60 games) with a 1.70 goals-against per-60-minute average and 21st with a 2.62 goals-for average.
"I tried to work on my defensive game a lot," Josi said before Game 1 against the Chicago Blackhawks on Wednesday. "I think that was one of my biggest weaknesses when I came into the league. It was kind of one of the main focuses to work on that game. There's so many things you can do better as a young guy. Playing with Shea all those years, you learn in practice and games. It's definitely a big help, too."
Weber has definitely played a hand in Josi's development. The two have been paired together for the past three seasons. Josi didn't think he could have had a better defensive partner and mentor.
"I think just the way he handles himself off the ice, on the ice," Josi said of Weber. "When you stop playing with him, you see all the little things he does every game. He does it so consistently. There's just so many things; he's such a complete player. There's a lot of things you can learn from him.
"He made it real easy for me. He talked a lot. He always tries to help on the ice and off the ice. If he sees something, he talks to me. He definitely made it real easy for me. I wasn't expecting to be as good as Shea [when I was paired with him]. I don't think that's possible. It was easy, thanks to him."
Josi has made it easy on Laviolette, too. When asked what's impressed him about Josi this season, Laviolette said, "Everything."
"He's been terrific," Laviolette continued. "He's a top defenseman in the league. He moves the puck. He defends well. He's capable of generating offensively. He can play against other teams' best players. He's as good in the defensive zone as he is in the offensive zone. Just a real talented player. He's had a terrific year for us, big part of the reason why we made it back to the playoffs and the success we’ve had."
Opponents are recognizing Josi's talent, too.
"He's one of the more underrated defensemen in the league," Blackhawks forward Patrick Kane said. "Obviously, had a great season. Seems like him and Weber are a good pairing back there. Whether it's defensively, on the power play, offensively, they seem to produce a lot for their team. Definitely two players we have to watch out for."
As for that Norris chatter, Josi isn't oblivious to it, but it's not where his head is at.
"I don't try to pay too much attention to that kind of stuff," Josi said. "It's definitely an honor to even be in the talk. There's so many great defensemen out there. Just on our team, there's a lot of great defensemen and the whole league. It's definitely an honor to be in the talk. As a player, you try not to worry too much about that kind of stuff. It's the playoffs right now. All I want to do is have success with the team right now."The hottest team in the Eastern Conference gets to welcome back stud blueliner Chris Pronger to its lineup Thursday night.
Gulp. That was the sound of the rest of the East holding its breath.
Not that the red-hot Philadelphia Flyers, winners of seven of eight in January, needed any help, but they get Pronger back after he missed 13 games with a broken foot. The club went 9-4-0 without its best defenseman and clutch playoff performer.
Jacob Trouba sees a little Chris Pronger in himself. Tom Szczerbowski/US Presswire
"We had a real tough stretch, too, with nine of 10 games on the road," Pronger told ESPN.com on Wednesday. "The guys played really well in my absence. You look at our maturity this year from last year, how we handle things, nothing seems to faze us."
The veteran Pronger, who has coach/GM material down the road, sat back while he was out and looked at a team that's come a long way. It was just over 13 months ago that John Stevens was fired as coach and the Flyers were near the basement of the conference. Now, they're a bona-fide Stanley Cup contender, buoyed by their trip to the Cup finals last spring and continued success this season.
"Last year, we were in 14th place, had fired our coach, there were all kinds of rumors swirling around about our team ... it's kind of come full circle to the point where we lose key guys and we don't even miss a beat," Pronger said.
The month out of the lineup afforded Pronger, 36, a vantage point from the press box.
"If I was the opposing coach, I think I look at our team and it gives people nightmares with our matchups because we have three legit scoring lines and a fourth line that can chip in and play well defensively and give us a lot of energy," Pronger said. "The blue line has three solid sets. We don't do a whole lot of matching up on defense. And the two goalies, we don't skip a beat whether it's one or the other."
Maybe Pronger would have liked to have said, "Good luck stopping this team," but he didn't. He credited coach Peter Laviolette for pushing the Flyers into constantly trying to evolve and improve. No one is satisfied despite the first-place standing.
"Peter has done a great job of keeping guys striving for that next level," Pronger said. "We need to continue to keep this team getting better. Because we all know that the teams that develop with each 20-game segment, the teams that are firing on all cylinders come April, are the ones that are going to go far. And we want to be one of those teams."
For Pronger, Thursday's return against the visiting Ottawa Senators will be a test. He was just feeling comfortable again in early December after recuperating from offseason surgery on his right knee when he broke his right foot.
"Hopefully I can get back to where I was when I got hurt," Pronger said.
The Flyers' depth means Pronger won't have to push it too far. The team is six deep on defense; the offseason additions of Andrej Meszaros and Sean O'Donnell have really strengthened an already good blue line, and that will allow Pronger to find his rhythm and not overdo it.
"With the addition of Mesz and Odie, the whole goal or purpose of it was to really roll three sets of defensemen and not play the top four 30 minutes a night," Pronger said.
And he agreed that despite the frustration of being sidelined for a month, the long-term benefit for his body might be that the time off keeps him fresher for the playoffs.
The playoffs are when Pronger shines brightest. He led the underdog Edmonton Oilers to a stunning Stanley Cup finals appearance in 2006 and should have won the Conn Smythe Trophy for it. He was the key piece in getting Anaheim over the hump and winning its Cup in 2007. And, boy, was he gold last spring for the Flyers in their run to the finals.
Can Philadelphia get it done this season? There are key players on this team who were willing to take less money to try to win that championship. Pronger, Mike Richards, Jeff Carter and Claude Giroux all signed cap-friendly contracts to help GM Paul Holmgren ice the most competitive team possible.
"Homer has been one of the front-runners in the league of trying to lock up guys to cap-friendly deals and solidify his roster," Pronger said. "Some guys, whether they took less money or more term or whatever the case may be, a lot of guys like playing here. We've got a good team. You talk to guys around the league, especially in the cap system, it's about being on a good team and having a chance to win. The money's always going to be there but you want to win. And that's what is great about this team. We have a lot of guys that just want to win."NEW YORK -- Jonathan Drouin had envisioned this season working out much differently.
Certainly what he didn't think would play out was watching the playoffs from the media box while his Tampa Bay Lightning reached the Eastern Conference finals. Game 2 is Monday in New York at 8 p.m. ET.
"It's definitely frustrating, anybody would tell you that, if you’re not in the lineup," Drouin said Sunday after skating with the extras at Madison Square Garden. "You obviously want to be in, but we're winning and we're in the conference finals. We have a good team, we’re rolling really good and we want that to continue."
One look at his face and you know it's eating at him. He has played in just three playoff games this spring.
The third-overall pick in the 2013 draft, he has seen fellow draft picks Nathan MacKinnon, Alekander Barkov, Seth Jones and Sean Monahan accomplish so much more in their young NHL careers. That’s the part no doubt that has to eat at Drouin deep down. But he insists he’s not focused on that.
"I try not to look around at what's going on with young guys or my draft, just make sure I’m ready when I get a chance," he said.
What’s clear no matter what anyone says is that head coach Jon Cooper just doesn’t trust him enough defensively.
Asked about his 200-foot game, Drouin said: "It’s up to them, my game’s fine, I want to be in every night and play every game, but it’s not up to me."
That's doesn't mean we won't see Drouin at some point, especially if the Lightning fall into a bigger hole in this series and need goals, but the decision to dress AHL call-up Jonathan Marchessault over Drouin over the past few games speaks volumes.
"Ultimately, it's my decision who goes in the lineup, and that's it," Cooper said Sunday when asked by Bleacher Report about not dressing Drouin. "It's talked about and then finally the decision is made, what are the 20 guys that we think are going to help us win tonight? Sometimes he's in that 20. Sometimes he's not. ...
"There is more than one net in a rink. There's two. So you have to be able to play in front of both of them. ...
"As we tell all our guys, it's professional hockey. You have to be a pro. If you're not in, be prepared because you never know when your name is going to be called."
Drouin said the message to him from the coaching staff was just to be ready.
"Sometimes injuries happen, sometimes they want to change their lineup," Drouin said. "It’s just being ready, practice hard and make sure when my opportunity comes I just grab it."
Drouin appeared in 70 games during the regular season, scoring four goals, while averaging just 13-14 minutes per game. In retrospect, and maybe this is nitpicking, but I would have given the kid more of a top-six chance during the season, when the games mattered less, to sink or swim in order to figure things out for himself. Easy for me to say, I’m not juggling such a talent-ridden roster like Cooper is.
Also, Drouin is only 20 years old. I think we forget that sometimes. He’s going to be a real good player in this league. Many young stars broke in like this, having to bide their time.
As for anyone suggesting that what’s transpiring will lead to some kind of offseason turmoil, Drouin downplayed that possibility.
"I don't want to leave ... I'm happy here," he said. "There's four teams left right now, we've got a chance to win a Stanley Cup, I’m part of it and I just have to be ready."The more Don Maloney took calls on the No. 3 pick, the more he kept coming back to one thing: He’s needed help at center for years, and there’s no way he couldn’t use the pick to take Dylan Strome.
"We just decided we really, really needed to take Strome," the Arizona Coyotes general manager said after the first round of the NHL draft wrapped up Friday night.
That’s why he removed the No. 3 pick from trade discussions with Boston regarding Dougie Hamilton. Oh, Maloney still tried on Hamilton, offering the Bruins a big package of other assets, but not the No. 3 pick.
Maloney said there was also talk with other teams about moving down just a bit. One of the scenarios involved a three-way trade in which the Columbus Blue Jackets would have move up higher from No. 8 and flipped that pick with Arizona, but at the same time ensuring the Coyotes could still get Strome.
That the Blue Jackets made a serious push in different forms of trying to get the No. 3 pick was all Maloney would say.Well, Calgary Flames coach Bob Hartley shouldn’t have to worry about incentive being an issue when deciding on a starting goaltender on a nightly basis next season.
After signing Karri Ramo to a one-year, $3.8 million deal late Tuesday night, just minutes before he could have become an unrestricted free agent, the Flames now have two veteran goaltenders who are looking to assert themselves as NHL starters.
Goaltender Karri Ramo split time with Jonas Hiller this past season. Todd Korol/Getty Images
And, oh yeah, both Ramo and Jonas Hiller are scheduled to become unrestricted free agents next summer. Talk about a nonstop tryout not just for the Flames, but the rest of the league.
The question now becomes whether Hartley and his staff can coax enough quality starts out of the two to get back to the playoffs after a surprising 2014-15 season that saw the Flames battle external skepticism and a crippling injury to captain Mark Giordano in March to reach the playoffs and upend the Vancouver Canucks in the first round.
What makes the goaltending situation even more interesting is that by the end of the second round of the playoffs -- a five-game loss to the Anaheim Ducks -- Hartley had turned over the starter’s reins to Ramo, who turned 29 on Wednesday.
There’s also 24-year-old Joni Ortio, who is on a one-way contract with the Flames, suggesting general manager Brad Treliving may be looking to move one of his three goalies at some point.
Does Ramo's strong turn against Anaheim give him an advantage over Hiller, 33, heading into training camp?
Possibly, but Hartley loves to ride the hot hand when it comes to goaltending, so both will get a chance. Which one will seize the moment? Will either?
Let’s just say there’s a lot riding on this for the Flames, who are already feeling optimistic with the addition of Boston defenseman Dougie Hamilton in a startling draft weekend deal. And there’s a lot riding on it for Hiller and Ramo, who will essentially be playing the entire season for their futures -- whether those futures are in Calgary or elsewhere.Take a sneak peek at Team Europe's jersey for the World Cup of Hockey in Toronto. (0:15)
From the official NHL and NHLPA release:
FINAL TEAM EUROPE 2016 WORLD CUP OF HOCKEY ROSTER
TORONTO (May 27, 2016) -- The Team Europe management group, led by General Manager Miroslav Satan, announced today its final roster for the World Cup of Hockey 2016, the best-on-best international hockey championship from Sept. 17 to Oct. 1, 2016, in Toronto. Today's additions are in bold.
Team Europe will feature a pan-European roster of players from birth countries outside of the Czech Republic, Finland, Russia and Sweden. Seven countries are represented among the 16 players selected today.
Illustration by Sam Ho
Team Europe
(representing country in parentheses)
G Frederik Andersen, Anaheim Ducks (Denmark)
G Jaroslav Halak, New York Islanders (Slovakia)
G Thomas Greiss, New York Islanders (Germany)
D Zdeno Chara, Boston Bruins (Slovakia)
D Roman Josi, Nashville Predators (Switzerland)
D Dennis Seidenberg, Boston Bruins (Germany)
D Andrej Sekera, Edmonton Oilers (Slovakia)
D Mark Streit, Philadelphia Flyers (Switzerland)
D Christian Ehrhoff, Chicago Blackhawks (Germany)
D Luca Sbisa, Vancouver Canucks (Italy)
F Mikkel Boedker, Colorado Avalanche (Denmark)
F Leon Draisaitl, Edmonton Oilers (Germany)
F Jannik Hansen, Vancouver Canucks (Denmark)
F Marian Hossa, Chicago Blackhawks (Slovakia)
F Anze Kopitar, Los Angeles Kings (Slovenia)
F Frans Nielsen, New York Islanders (Denmark)
F Tomas Tatar, Detroit Red Wings (Slovakia)
F Thomas Vanek, Minnesota Wild (Austria)
F Mats Zuccarello, New York Rangers (Norway)
F Pierre-Edouard Bellemare, Philadelphia Flyers (France)
F Marian Gaborik, Los Angeles Kings (Slovakia)
F Nino Niederreiter, Minnesota Wild (Switzerland)
F Tobias Rieder, Arizona Coyotes (Germany)
Eight teams -- Team Canada, Team Czech Republic, Team Finland, Team Russia, Team Sweden, Team USA, Team Europe and Team North America -- will compete in the two-week tournament, featuring more than 150 of the best players in the NHL. All tournament games will be played at Air Canada Centre in Toronto, home of the NHL Toronto Maple Leafs.
Each of the eight teams will have a tournament roster of 23 players: 20 skaters and three goaltenders.
The World Cup of Hockey 2016 is a joint effort of the National Hockey League and the National Hockey League Players’ Association, in cooperation with the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). The eight teams are split into two Groups, Group A and Group B, for the Preliminary Round (Sept. 17-22), when each team will play its three Group opponents in a round-robin format. Placed in Group A are Team Canada, Team Czech Republic and Team USA, plus Team Europe, a pan-European roster of players from birth countries outside of the Czech Republic, Finland, Russia and Sweden. The four teams in Group B are Team Finland, Team Russia, Team Sweden and Team North America, a selection of the top players from Canada and the United States who are 23 or under as of Oct. 1, 2016.
The top two finishers in each of Group A and Group B will advance to the Semifinals (Sept. 24-25), where each qualifier will face an elimination game against a team from the other Group. The two Semifinal winners will meet in the Final, a best-of-three series on Sept. 27, Sept. 29 and, if necessary, Oct. 1.
Live coverage of all tournament games will be provided by Sportsnet and TVA Sports in Canada and ESPN in the United States. A complete broadcast schedule will be announced at a later date.Take a sneak peek at Team North America's jersey for the World Cup of Hockey in Toronto. (0:14)
From the official releases by the NHL and NHLPA
FINAL TEAM NORTH AMERICA 2016 WORLD CUP OF HOCKEY ROSTER
TORONTO (May 27, 2016) – The Team North America management staff announced today its final 23-man roster for the World Cup of Hockey 2016, the best-on-best international hockey championship from Sept. 17 to Oct. 1, 2016, in Toronto. Seven players were added today, highlighted in bold. They join the 16 selected to the team on March 2.
The top hockey players from Canada and the United States who are 23 or under as of Oct. 1, 2016, are available for selection exclusively by Team North America.
Illustration by Sam Ho
Team North America
G John Gibson, Anaheim Ducks
G Connor Hellebuyck, Winnipeg Jets
G Matt Murray, Pittsburgh Penguins
D Aaron Ekblad, Florida Panthers
D Seth Jones, Columbus Blue Jackets
D Ryan Murray, Columbus Blue Jackets
D Morgan Rielly, Toronto Maple Leafs
D Shayne Gostisbehere, Philadelphia Flyers
D Colton Parayko, St. Louis Blues
D Jacob Trouba, Winnipeg Jets
F Sean Couturier, Philadelphia Flyers
F Jack Eichel, Buffalo Sabres
F Johnny Gaudreau, Calgary Flames
F Dylan Larkin, Detroit Red Wings
F Nathan MacKinnon, Colorado Avalanche
F Connor McDavid, Edmonton Oilers
F J.T. Miller, New York Rangers
F Sean Monahan, Calgary Flames
F Brandon Saad, Columbus Blue Jackets
F Jonathan Drouin, Tampa Bay Lightning
F Auston Matthews, Zug
F Ryan Nugent-Hopkins, Edmonton Oilers
F Mark Scheifele, Winnipeg Jets
Team North America’s management staff was appointed by the National Hockey League Players’ Association and the National Hockey League, and consists of General Manager Peter Chiarelli (Edmonton Oilers), Associate General Manager Stan Bowman (Chicago Blackhawks), Head Coach Todd McLellan (Edmonton Oilers), Director of Operations Ryan Jankowski, Adam Graves (Special Assistant to the General Managers), Pat Verbeek (Director of Player Personnel) and Paul Fenton (Director of Player Personnel).
Eight teams -- Team Canada, Team Czech Republic, Team Finland, Team Russia, Team Sweden, Team USA, Team Europe and Team North America -- will compete in the two-week tournament, featuring more than 150 of the best players in the NHL. All tournament games will be played at Air Canada Centre in Toronto, home of the Toronto Maple Leafs.
Each of the eight teams will have a tournament roster of 23 players:
20 skaters and three goaltenders.
The World Cup of Hockey 2016 is a joint effort of the NHL and the NHLPA, in cooperation with the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF).
The eight teams are split into two Groups, Group A and Group B, for the Preliminary Round (Sept. 17-22), when each team will play its three Group opponents in a round-robin format. Placed in Group A are Team Canada, Team Czech Republic and Team USA, plus Team Europe, a pan-European roster of players from birth countries outside of the Czech Republic, Finland, Russia and Sweden. The four teams in Group B are Team Finland, Team Russia, Team Sweden and Team North America, a selection of the top players from Canada and the United States who are 23 or under as of Oct. 1, 2016.
The top two finishers in each of Group A and Group B will advance to the Semifinals (Sept. 24-25), where each qualifier will face an elimination game against a team from the other Group. The two Semifinal winners will meet in the Final, a best-of-three series on Sept. 27, Sept. 29 and, if necessary, Oct. 1.
Live coverage of all tournament games will be provided by Sportsnet and TVA Sports in Canada and ESPN in the United States. A complete broadcast schedule will be announced at a later date.PITTSBURGH, Pa. -- The Pittsburgh Penguins, playing with a lineup depleted by injury and suspension, have pushed the Washington Capitals to the brink of elimination with a 3-2 overtime victory in Game 4 of their second-round series thanks to a Patric Hornqvist goal 17 minutes, 26 seconds into overtime. The Penguins lead the series 3-1 with Game 5 set for Saturday in Washington.
The Capitals and Penguins played another game filled with borderline hits. Justin K. Aller/Getty Images
How it happened: The Penguins were without arguably their best player in Game 4 as Kris Letang was sitting out a one-game suspension for a hit on Marcus Johansson in Game 3. The Pens were also missing defenseman Olli Maatta and forward Eric Fehr, who were injured. Yet the Capitals, who were so dominant in their Game 3 loss, could not take advantage and establish the territorial control that marked Game 3 when they fired 85 shot attempts at the Penguins' net. They did open the scoring on a Jay Beagle backhand but then had to fight back to tie the game at 2-2 late in the second period after the Pens took the lead on a Matt Cullen goal early in the second period. The winning goal came after a terrific job of forechecking by Sidney Crosby and his linemates.
What it means: The Capitals, the NHL’s best regular-season team, have now lost three straight and face the prospect of having their season come to yet an early closure on Saturday night in Washington. This was a game the Capitals absolutely had to win given their deficit in the series but also given that Letang, who logs an average of 29:14 a night in ice time in the playoffs, was out of the lineup. There were a few defensive miscues -- one on Derrick Pouliot that led to the tying goal by John Carlson -- but Trevor Daley stepped into the breach with his best game as a Penguin and once again Matt Murray made key stops when he had to. As for the Caps, their best players continue to struggle in this series as Alex Ovechkin, Nicklas Backstrom, T.J. Oshie and Evgeny Kuznetsov were all held off the scoresheet. They will need to make themselves known Saturday or it will be yet another long, uncomfortable summer for the Caps.
87 vs. 8: Crosby, without a point in the first three games of the series, got into the black drawing an assist on Daley’s deflected goal midway through the first period that tied the game at 1-1 and, of course, helped set up the winning goal in overtime even though he was not credited with an assist. He also left the game after taking a slash to the left hand courtesy of Ovechkin with just more than 13 minutes left in the third period. He could be seen smashing his stick as he went down the hallway to the dressing room but did return a few minutes later. Ovechkin didn't register a point, was minus-1 and had seven shots on net.Sharks captian Joe Pavelski analyzes his style of play at this stage in his career, as well as shares his thoughts on Penguins winger Phil Kessel not being selected for Team USA's World Cup of Hockey roster. (1:04)
PITTSBURGH -- Here we go. This is it. The first to four wins will hoist the Stanley Cup as champions of the 2015-16 NHL season. It comes down to either the Eastern Conference-winning Pittsburgh Penguins or the Western Conference-winning San Jose Sharks. At this time of the season, it’s difficult to pick a few players from each team who are “hot” or those who are “not,” since both teams reached this point because of contributions from everyone on the roster in some shape or form. Without further ado, here is our Stanley Cup edition.
PITTSBURGH PENGUINS
Hot
Bryan Rust: The rookie forward began the season with the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins of the AHL. He finished the Eastern Conference finals with two goals in Pittsburgh’s decisive 2-1 win in Game 7 against the Tampa Bay Lightning. It was his second career multigoal game in the postseason, both of which came in series-clinching wins. (He also had two goals and one assist in Game 5 against the New York Rangers.) Rust has five goals and three assists for eight points in 17 postseason games this season.
Phil Kessel: Who would have thought Kessel would become a folk hero? After stints with the Boston Bruins and Toronto Maple Leafs, the trade that sent him to Pittsburgh, a place where he didn’t have to be the guy, turned out to prove crucial for the Penguins and for Kessel. He learned to live and play outside the shadows of superstars Sidney Crosby and Evgeni Malkin. Kessel’s “HBK” line with Carl Hagelin and Nick Bonino is a major reason the Penguins are in the Stanley Cup finals. The trio is producing at both ends of the ice, and so far in the postseason, Kessel has a team-leading nine goals and nine assists for 18 points in 18 games.
Evgeni Malkin needs to amp up the consistency. Justin K. Aller/Getty Images
Not
Evgeni Malkin: At times, Malkin showed he could be a beast, but he hasn't been consistent. He did have two assists in Game 7 of the conference finals to extend his points streak to five games, but he needs to do more. He has four goals and 11 assists for 15 points in 17 playoff games, but he hasn't been the force the Penguins need him to be in order to accomplish the next goal. He has that next gear and now needs to bring it every game.
SAN JOSE SHARKS
Hot
Joe Pavelski: He was a monster at the most opportune time for the Sharks in the conference finals, with four goals and five assists for nine points. His 13 goals this postseason lead the league. He enters the Stanley Cup finals with a seven-game points streak -- five goals and five assists.
Logan Couture is sizzling heading into the Stanley Cup finals. Justin K. Aller/Getty Images
Logan Couture: He scored one goal and added an assist in Game 6 of the conference finals to lead the Sharks to a 5-2 win and a berth in the Stanley Cup finals. It was his third three-point game of the playoffs, all of which came in series-clinching wins. He leads all players in points this postseason with eight goals and 16 assists for 24 points.
Joe Thornton: He has been playing inspired hockey for the majority of the season, and that has carried over into the playoffs. His teammates are feeding off his energy and Jumbo Joe is the closest he has ever come in his career to winning a Stanley Cup. Could this be the season he finally accomplishes that feat? Many believe it will happen for Thornton and the Sharks. He enters the finals with seven points in his past four games.
Not
Nick Spaling: The teams that have won the Cup in recent history -- Chicago Blackhawks, Los Angeles Kings and Boston Bruins -- all had something in common: The ability to roll four lines. The Penguins have it. The Sharks are a deep team, too. With that said, Spaling needs to chip in a dirty goal on occasion. His ice time is limited, averaging 13 minutes per game this postseason, but he has been held to one assist in 18 games. He’s not known as a prolific point-getter, but at this time of the year, everyone needs to add a little something more.On Tuesday, the Montreal Canadiens dropped a bombshell, firing coach Michel Therrien and replaced him with Claude Julien, who was fired by the Boston Bruins last week. Julien, a Stanley Cup-winning coach with the Bruins, takes over the Canadiens, who are leading the Atlantic Division but have been struggling.
Marc DesRosiers/USA TODAY Sports
Scott Burnside and Joe McDonald discuss whether or not this move will change the culture in Montreal to help lead the team to success down the stretch and into the Stanley Cup playoffs.
Burnside: No love for Michel Therrien in Montreal on Valentine’s Day. I feel bad for the veteran coach who, like successor Claude Julien, always seemed to be getting fired as the head coach of the Canadiens. Of course, Julien will now enjoy the same honeymoon period that all new coaches enjoy, but soon enough Julien will feel the same pressure experienced by all coaches in Montreal. And there’s a weird kind of symmetry to this whole thing. Therrien was on his second go-around as Habs head coach and now Julien returns to the high-pressure post he held for parts of three seasons more than a decade ago. What surprises me is that Julien would sign on for the pressure cooker of the Montreal job just a week after he was fired by the Bruins. Maybe the lure of returning to the most storied franchise in the NHL was too great. Maybe the fact the Habs are a first-place club was a factor. Maybe the chance at getting right back at the Bruins was also part of the mix. But you’ve known Julien a long time, Joe. What were your first impressions of the dramatic coaching moves that marked Valentine’s Day?
McDonald: Scotty, I’m not surprised at all that Julien would accept this challenge to return to the Canadiens only a week after being fired. The thing that does shock me is Bruins president Cam Neely would give the Canadiens permission to speak with Julien; Neely has a true hatred toward the rival Canadiens. But this could be a true sign of respect for Julien that Neely and GM Don Sweeney allowed him to explore other opportunities. In fact, according to a source, other teams were given permission to speak with Julien too. Regardless, it’s the right thing to do on the Bruins’ part. For the Canadiens, this is a bold and brilliant move by GM Marc Bergevin to hire Julien. Something needed to be done in Montreal and this move could be the reason the Canadiens enjoy a deep run in the Stanley Cup playoffs.
Burnside: One of the interesting sidebars after Julien was fired was the fact that the Bruins were actually a good puck-possession team. The Canadiens, as you noted in a piece, hit the bye week in a bit of a funk. Goalie Carey Price has been sideways for a while, there have been injuries and there has been the schedule that has seen Montreal play seven games in 11 days, ironically finishing with a desultory 4-0 loss to the Bruins and new head coach Bruce Cassidy. Still, if people think Julien is going to introduce a new style of hockey to the Habs, they might be forgetting that Therrien -- at least when Price has been healthy -- has played a pretty impressive style of defensive hockey too. In spite of their recent trip sideways, the Canadiens are still eighth in goals allowed per game. Where do you see Julien having a big influence in terms of the Habs’ style of play, Joey Mac?
Michel Therrien was fired after the Canadiens' recent struggles. Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images
McDonald: Julien-coached teams have always had success when they stick to their structure. Yes, he values the defense-first mentality, but in Boston we’ve seen what happens when Julien has a world-class goaltender and a solid defensive core -- it results in a potent offense. He’s also taking over this team when the roster is healthy. Julien has instant credibility with the Canadiens and has worked with Price on Team Canada for the Olympics and World Cup. And I think it’s hysterical that he goes from coaching a team with Brad Marchand to one with Andrew Shaw. I also don’t think Bergevin is done making changes. He’s working the phones, trying to make his team better because a coaching change isn’t the only thing Montreal needs.
Burnside: The pressure is indeed on Bergevin to make this team better. If he can’t add depth up front and specifically down the middle, and this team gets caught by the Ottawa Senators (which could happen, setting up a potentially perfect first-round matchup with Boston) or if they win the Atlantic and are eliminated in the first round (which is another distinct possibility, given that there’s going to be an excellent Metropolitan Division team crossing over in the first round), then Bergevin is going to look like a guy who made a coaching change because that’s what the public demanded. But I don’t think he’s that kind of guy and I do think there is help coming in the form of a Martin Hanzal or someone similar before the March 1 trade deadline. But by making this kind of move, Bergevin set himself up as a fall guy in a town that loves to take its hockey people down. So, how do you see this playing out over the next few weeks and months?
McDonald: Julien is a much different coach now than during his first stint with the Canadiens. He has won a Stanley Cup and knows what it takes to enjoy success in the spring. The initial move will pay dividends for Bergevin and the Canadiens. It would be great theater if somehow the Canadiens and Bruins compete in the Stanley Cup playoffs. Julien would never admit it, but no doubt there’s a part of him that accepted this job with a sense of retribution. If Bergevin acquires other important pieces, and the Canadiens enjoy a deep run, the GM will look like a genius. If the team’s current tailspin continues, then he will become the fall guy. But there’s no doubt in my mind he made the right move by hiring Julien.Who doesn’t want to see Jarome Iginla escape the Colorado Avalanche and get another playoff run under his belt before he retires?
The 39-year-old winger has publicly stated his desire to join a playoff team if at all possible.
Could a reunion with his former Calgary Flames coach/GM Darryl Sutter be a possibility? A source told ESPN.com that the Los Angeles Kings have kicked around the merits of that idea, given that history between their coach and Iginla. Whether the Kings act on it and call Colorado about it remains to be seen.
The Kings have struggled offensively, so the question is whether Sutter feels he can get some juice out of Iginla at this point of his remarkable career.
If Kings GM Dean Lombardi does decide to proceed on the Iginla front -- and again, let me stress he might not -- that $5.33 million cap hit will be an issue. There's no question that the Kings would need the Avalanche to eat some of it.
What about the Edmonton Oilers? Edmonton is, after all, Iginla’s hometown. So it’s a romantic thought, for sure. His experience alone would be a nice addition for the young Oilers, who look to be playoff-bound for the first time in 11 years. But I think Edmonton’s trade-deadline focus is on a third-line center.
Whatever the case, there doesn’t seem to have been much traction on the Iginla front. I don’t believe Colorado has received much interest in him. Veteran agent Don Meehan is scheduled to meet with Iginla, who has a full no-move clause, next week.
Center Brian Boyle and his 6-foot-6, 244-pound frame -- and 100 games of playoff experience -- could be an asset to several teams with postseason ambitions. Debora Robinson/NHLI via Getty Images
Elsewhere:
Teams that strike out on Arizona Coyotes center Martin Hanzal might turn their attention to the Tampa Bay Lightning's Brian Boyle, a pending unrestricted free agent and another beast of a third-line center. For now, though, I think Tampa Bay is in a holding pattern in terms of its trade-deadline plans. The Lightning are hoping to continue their winning ways from before their bye week and get closer to a playoff spot over the next two weeks. Boyle could be an 11th-hour decision closer to March 1.
Pending unrestricted free agents Kyle Quincey and P.A. Parenteau will likely be shipped out before March 1 unless the New Jersey Devils claw their way into a playoff spot. Quincey could be an under-the-radar add-on. The left-handed defenseman plays the right side and has averaged more than 18 minutes a night. And his cap hit ($1.25 million) is easy to digest.
Speaking of the Devils, they will have 10 draft picks in June (including two second-rounders, two third-rounders and two fourth-rounders) and could add more by dealing rental players before the deadline. Some of those picks are assets to be used in future trades, as the Devils hope to be aggressive this summer in filling needs and perhaps seeking out teams with salary-cap issues.
Trade deadline targets for the playoff-bubble Calgary Flames: a top-nine forward who can help the offense and a defenseman -- perhaps as a rental. The Flames should try to add a young, top-four-type blueliner for the long term during the offseason.
The Toronto Maple Leafs aren’t going to mortgage the future for a short-term fix just because they’re in the playoff race. The Leafs' long-term plan will prevail, but it’s worth noting that if they do indeed need more cap room at the trade deadline, they have up to $13.5 million in cap space available from Nathan Horton, Joffrey Lupul and Stephane Robidas, who are all on long-term injured reserve. The Leafs haven’t used those LTIR dollars all season and have been carrying those three players under their cap.From the official NHL release:
LAINE, KADRI AND McDAVID NAMED THREE STARS OF THE WEEK
NEW YORK (Feb. 20, 2017) – Winnipeg Jets right wing Patrik Laine, Toronto Maple Leafs center Nazem Kadri and Edmonton Oilers center Connor McDavid have been named the NHL’s “Three Stars” for the week ending Feb. 19.
FIRST STAR – PATRIK LAINE, RW, WINNIPEG JETS
Laine led the NHL with five goals and eight points in four games to propel the Jets (28-29-5, 61 points) to seven out of a possible eight standings points. He recorded his third career hat trick, including the winning goal, in a 5-2 triumph over the Dallas Stars Feb. 14. In doing so, Laine became the first player in NHL history to register three hat tricks before his 19th birthday as well as the first rookie to collect three hat tricks in one season since 1992-93. He scored again in a 4-3 overtime loss to the Pittsburgh Penguins Feb. 16. Laine then finished the week with consecutive multi-point efforts, notching 1-1—2 in a 3-1 victory over the Montreal Canadiens Feb. 18 and two assists in a 3-2 win against the Ottawa Senators Feb. 19. The 18-year-old Tampere, Finland, native paces rookies with 52 points in 54 games this season and also shares third place in the entire NHL – as well as the rookie lead – with 28 goals.
SECOND STAR – NAZEM KADRI, C, TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS
Kadri picked up points in each of his four games, totaling 4-2—6 to lift the Maple Leafs (27-20-11, 65 points) to a split of their four contests. He recorded 1-1—2, including the decisive goal, in a 7-1 victory over the New York Islanders Feb. 14. Kadri then scored twice, his fifth multi-goal outing of the season, in a 5-2 defeat to the Columbus Blue Jackets Feb. 15. He closed the week with one goal in a 6-3 loss to the Ottawa Senators Feb. 18 and one assist in a 4-0 triumph over the Carolina Hurricanes Feb. 19. The 26-year-old London, Ont., native already has established a career high with 24 goals in 58 appearances this season, while his 46 points are four shy of his personal best set in 2013-14 (20-30—50 in 78 GP).
THIRD STAR – CONNOR McDAVID, C, EDMONTON OILERS
McDavid continued his quest for the Art Ross Trophy, racking up 2-4—6 in three games to guide the Oilers (32-19-8, 72 points) to three straight wins. He began the week with two assists in a 5-2 victory over the Arizona Coyotes Feb. 14. McDavid then posted 1-2—3, his eighth three-point performance of the campaign, in a 6-3 triumph against the Philadelphia Flyers Feb. 16. He capped the week by scoring his 20th goal of 2016-17 in a 3-1 win over the Chicago Blackhawks Feb. 18. The 20-year-old Richmond Hill, Ont., native paces the NHL with 47 assists and 67 points in 59 games this season.From the official NHL release:
NEW YORK (Feb. 27, 2017) – Nashville Predators left wing Filip Forsberg, Chicago Blackhawks center Jonathan Toews and Calgary Flames left wing Johnny Gaudreau have been named the NHL’s “Three Stars” for the week ending Feb. 26.
FIRST STAR – FILIP FORSBERG, LW, NASHVILLE PREDATORS
Forsberg led all skaters in goals and points (8-2—10 in 4 GP), including back-to-back hat tricks, as the Predators gained seven of a possible eight standings points to improve their record to 31-22-9 (71 points), third in the Central Division. On Feb. 21, Forsberg recorded his third career hat trick in a 6-5 overtime loss to the Calgary Flames and followed it up with another three-goal performance, including the winning goal, in a 4-2 win over the Colorado Avalanche on Feb. 23. In doing so,
Forsberg became the first player in franchise history to record hat tricks in consecutive games and the first NHL player to achieve the feat since Vancouver’s Alexandre Burrows on Jan. 5 and Jan. 7, 2010. Forsberg closed out the week with one goal and two assists in a 5-2 triumph over the Washington Capitals on Feb. 25 and one goal in a 5-4 victory over the Edmonton Oilers on Feb. 26. The 22-year-old Ostervala, Sweden, native leads the Predators in goals and sits second on the team in points with 24-22—46 in 62 games.
FORSBERG, TOEWS AND GAUDREAU NAMED NHL ‘THREE STARS’ OF THE WEEK
SECOND STAR – JONATHAN TOEWS, C, CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS
Toews recorded multi-point efforts in each of the Blackhawks three games (4-5—9) as Chicago won all three contests to improve their overall record to 39-18-5 (83 points), second in the Central Division. On Feb. 21, Toews matched career highs for goals (3) and points (5) in a game, including the winning tally, in a 5-3 victory over the Central Division-leading Minnesota Wild. The Blackhawks captain then notched two assists in a 6-3 win over the Arizona Coyotes on Feb. 23 before closing out the week with one goal and one assist in a 4-2 triumph over the St. Louis Blues on Feb. 26. The 28-year-old Winnipeg, Man., native is currently riding a six-game point streak (5-8—13).
THIRD STAR – JOHNNY GAUDREAU, LW, CALGARY FLAMES
Gaudreau recorded eight points (2-6—8) in four road victories to propel the Flames (33-26-4, 70 points) to the first Wild Card position in the Western Conference. He began the week with four assists in a 6-5 OT win over the Nashville Predators Feb. 21. On Feb. 23, he recorded one assist in a 3-2 victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning before being held off the scoresheet in a 4-2 win over the Florida Panthers on Feb. 24. Gaudreau finished the week with two goals and one assist, including the winner, in a 3-1 victory over the Carolina Hurricanes on Feb. 26. A 23-year-old native of Salem, N.J., Gaudreau sits second in Flames scoring with 43 points (13-30—43) in 53 games.From the official NHL release:
PANARIN, JOHANSSON AND TALBOT NAMED THREE STARS OF THE WEEK
NEW YORK (Apr. 3, 2017) – Chicago Blackhawks left wing Artemi Panarin , Washington Capitals left wing Marcus Johansson and Edmonton Oilers goaltender Cam Talbot have been named the Three Stars for the week ending April 2.
FIRST STAR – ARTEMI PANARIN, LW, CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS
Panarin led the League with five goals in four games (5-1—6) to help the Blackhawks (50-22-7, 107 points) clinch first place in the Western Conference. Panarin began the week by notching one goal in a 5-4 overtime loss to the Tampa Bay Lightning March 27. On March 29, he recorded 1-1—2 in a 5-1 victory over the Pittsburgh Penguins and followed with two goals in a
3-1 win over the Columbus Blue Jackets March 31. Panarin finished the week with one goal in a 3-2 loss to the Boston Bruins April 2. The 25-year-old native of Korkino, Russia, ranks second on the Blackhawks in goals and points (29-43—72 in 79 GP) and has eclipsed the 70-point mark in each of his first two NHL campaigns.
SECOND STAR – MARCUS JOHANSSON, LW, WASHINGTON CAPITALS
Johansson led the League in assists and points with 1-7—8 as the Capitals (52-18-8, 112 points) won three of four games to maintain their hold on first place in the overall NHL standings. Johansson began the week by notching four assists, including the primary helper on the game-winning goal, in a 5-4 overtime win over the Minnesota Wild March 28. On March 29, he tallied 1-1—2 in a 5-3 triumph over the Colorado Avalanche before posting two assists on March 31 in a 6-3 loss to the Arizona Coyotes. Johansson was held off the scoresheet in a 3-2 victory over the Columbus Blue Jackets April 2. The 26-year-old Landskrona, Sweden, native is in his seventh NHL campaign with Washington and has reached single-season career highs for goals (23) and points (56) in 2016-17.
THIRD STAR – CAM TALBOT, G, EDMONTON OILERS
Talbot went 3-0-0 with a 1.66 goals-against average and .946 save percentage to help the Oilers (44-25-9, 97 points) earn victories against three Pacific Division rivals and clinch a postseason berth for the first time since 2005-06. Talbot began the week by stopping 34 shots in a 2-1 victory over the Los Angeles Kings March 28. On March 30, he made 38 saves in a 3-2 win over the San Jose Sharks and followed with 16 saves in a 3-2 overtime victory over the Anaheim Ducks April 1. The 29-year-old native of Caledonia, Ont., has appeared in a League-high 70 games for the Oilers while earning 40 wins for the first time in his career (40-21-8, 2.36 GAA, .921 SV%, 7 SO) to equal a single-season franchise record set by Grant Fuhr in 1987-88.From the official NHL release:
ANDERSON, KLEFBOM AND POINT NAMED THREE STARS OF THE WEEK
NEW YORK (April 10, 2017) – Ottawa Senators goaltender Craig Anderson, Edmonton Oilers defenseman Oscar Klefbom and Tampa Bay Lightning center Brayden Point have been named the Three Stars for the week ending April 9.
FIRST STAR – CRAIG ANDERSON, G, OTTAWA SENATORS
Anderson went 3-0-1 with a 1.44 goals-against average, .943 save percentage and one shutout to guide the Senators (44-28-10, 98 points) to seven out of a possible 10 standings points and a second-place finish in the Atlantic Division. He made 29 saves in a 5-4 shootout loss to the Detroit Red Wings April 3. Anderson bounced back with his 38th career shutout, stopping all 24 shots he faced in a 2-0 triumph over the Red Wings April 4. He closed the season with two more wins, making 28 saves in a 2-1 shootout victory against the Boston Bruins April 6 and 18 stops in a 3-1 triumph over the New York Rangers April 8. The 35-year-old Park Ridge, Ill., native posted a 25-11-4 record with a 2.28 goals-against average, .926 save percentage and five shutouts in 40 outings in 2016-17.
SECOND STAR – OSCAR KLEFBOM, D, EDMONTON OILERS
Klefbom led the NHL with seven assists/points in four games to propel the Oilers (47-26-9, 103 points) to three victories and a second-place finish in the Pacific Division. He collected one helper in a 6-4 loss to the Los Angeles Kings April 4. Klefbom then registered a career-high four assists – the most by an Oilers defenseman since Dec. 31, 2005 (Chris Pronger) – in a 4-2 triumph over the San Jose Sharks April 6. He capped 2016-17 with one helper in each of his last two appearances, a 3-2 victory against the Vancouver Canucks April 8 and 5-2 win over the Canucks April 9. The 23-year-old Karlstad, Sweden, native notched career highs in goals (12), assists (26), points (38) and games played (82) this season, his fourth in the NHL.
THIRD STAR – BRAYDEN POINT, C, TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING
Point shared second place in the NHL with 4-2—6 in four games as the Lightning (42-30-10, 94 points) wrapped up their season with three victories in four starts. After being held off the scoresheet in a 4-0 loss to the Boston Bruins April 4, Point bounced back with two goals – his second career multi-goal performance – in a 4-1 triumph over the Toronto Maple Leafs April 6. He added one assist in a 4-2 win against the Montreal Canadiens April 7 before closing the season with a career-high three points (2-1—3), including the decisive goal, in a 4-2 victory over the Buffalo Sabres April 9. The 21-year-old Calgary native finished 2016-17 eighth among rookies with 18-22—40 in 68 contests.The Vancouver Canucks can still win the Stanley Cup, but they're going to have to do it without their top penalty-killing forward and best faceoff man.
Make no mistake, the loss of Manny Malhotra (serious eye injury) for the regular season and playoffs, which the club announced Monday, is a serious blow.
Last July, the Canucks made Malhotra one of their top free-agent targets and privately believed his signing was just as significant as top defenseman Dan Hamhuis.
GM Mike Gillis desperately wanted to upgrade his third line after seeing his team lose to Chicago for a second straight postseason, most notably by acquiring a checking center who could add more grit, win more faceoffs and improve the team's penalty killing.
Manny Malhotra was hit in the left eye by an errant puck during last Wednesday's game against Colorado and underwent surgery to repair the injury. Jeff Vinnick/NHLI/Getty Images
Done, done and done after Malhotra arrived.
Malhotra is second in the NHL behind only Jonathan Toews with 778 faceoff wins and leads his team among forwards in shorthanded ice time. He might have won the Selke Trophy as best defensive forward and may still get some votes despite missing the last month of the regular season. So while Malhotra's name may not resonate around the rest of the league outside of Vancouver, the Canucks know what they've lost.
So, what now?
Give Gillis credit for picking up forward depth at the trade deadline in Maxim Lapierre and Christopher Higgins. Some people wondered why the GM bothered. Well, now you know why: injuries can happen. Lapierre played most of his career in Montreal as a third- or fourth-line center and is a solid penalty killer, so he'll be the obvious replacement, at least for now. Cody Hodgson could be another option (he's got more offensive touch), but Lapierre should get the first crack at it.
Still, there's no replacing Malhotra. I think his absence will mean even more minutes for star centers Henrik Sedin and Ryan Kesler come playoff time.
On a final note, Malhotra's injury also reignites the decades-old debate on visors. There should no longer be any debate. The NHL Players' Association must allow the league to go to mandatory visors. No more arguing.
We all agree the game is faster than ever; players don't have as much time to react to pucks and sticks. Players already in the NHL can choose whether to wear a visor, but any new player starting next season and beyond should be required to wear one. Case closed.When Colin Greening slid home the empty-net clincher in the Ottawa Senators' 4-2 win over the Canucks at B.C. Place in Vancouver on Sunday, it effectively brought to an end the NHL's ambitious -- some would say bloated -- outdoor slate of games.
From the epic, optically spectacular shootout win by the Toronto Maple Leafs over the Detroit Red Wings at Michigan Stadium on New Year's Day through to this weekend's post-Olympic outdoor adventures in snowy, bitterly cold Chicago and indoors in damp Vancouver, the NHL seems to have emerged unscathed from its experiment in outdoor saturation.
Maybe because we were in Sochi for the Olympic Games and almost everything leaves us a bit ragged right now, but there was indeed at least a perceived weariness factor when the Pittsburgh Penguins dropped in on the Chicago Blackhawks at Soldier Field on Saturday only to be waxed 5-1 in the NFL Bears' snowy, frigid domain.
And likewise it was a little of, "Oh, yeah, you guys are going to play outdoors too" when Ottawa and the Canucks went at it Sunday afternoon in Vancouver in the Heritage Classic.
But our weariness didn't necessarily represent or reflect fans' weariness.
And it is important, or at least relevant, to remind ourselves not to transfer our own feelings of "Oh, another one already?" to how the greater public might view and/or appreciate these events because in the end it appears the NHL gauged the public's appetite for the game out of doors (or in the case of B.C. Place, under a retractable dome) just about right.
In Vancouver, a bit of a tricky marketplace if ever there was one (just ask the Canucks, whose place in the market has shifted ever so slightly less than three years after going to Game 7 of the 2011 Stanley Cup finals), an announced 54,194 showed for a game that figured to be the hardest of all six of the "outdoor" games to peddle.
The day before in Chicago, 62,921 took in the tilt at Soldier Field, the second outdoor game held in the city since the NHL launched the Winter Classic event on New Year's Day 2008.
Did fans in either city care that a week ago the eyes of the hockey world were on the medal games in Sochi?
If they did, it was hard to tell and the games in both cases were interesting, visually compelling contests no matter the elements.
In all, the NHL reported that 376,837 fans attended the six outdoor games -- the Winter Classic, four Stadium Series games and the Heritage Classic.
We were in Ann Arbor, where the largest crowd to ever watch an NHL game assembled in the snow and we were in Los Angeles less than month later, when the Anaheim Ducks and the Los Angeles Kings skated onto the ice in a magical setting in Chavez Ravine at Dodger Stadium along with Vin Scully and Wayne Gretzky and Kiss.
Cool?
Hell, yeah. Times two.
Would we want to contemplate six more next season?
Hell, no.
But, luckily it doesn't appear the NHL is, either.
Coming out of the lockout, all of this could be rationalized.
The idea of sharing this kind of event with as many fans in as many disparate markets as possible made sense. Sure, it was about recouping at least some of the money frittered away from another senseless work stoppage. But it was also about throwing an olive branch to fans:
"Hey, sorry we took half a year off. But look, this is going to happen in your backyard. Grab a coat and come on down."
The Winter Classic with Toronto and Detroit, postponed form 2013 because of the lockout, was a no-brainer that delivered the goods and then some.
The Dodger Stadium game was a well-executed bit of theater and the game itself was terrific, featuring two of the best teams in the NHL that just happened to exist a stretch of freeway apart in southern California.
The twin games in Yankee Stadium during Super Bowl week, why not? Why not do that?
For us the final two were the question marks.
Coming out of the Olympics, the theory was that the games in Chicago and Vancouver would be a jump-start to the NHL's final run to the playoffs. Throw in the league's ambitious documentary series "NHL Revealed: A Season Like No Other," that was, well, revealed, earlier in the week, and it made for a great smorgasbord of hockey.
Looks like the league did just that.
In the past, we kicked the NHL in the shins for not having an imagination.
Seems a bit unfair to criticize it for doing exactly the opposite.
As long as they don't do it again next year.Boston Bruins forward Marc Savard, who hasn't played all season because of post-concussion syndrome stemming from a hit by the Penguins' Matt Cooke in March, has been cleared for full-contact workouts and for full participation in the team's practices.
Savard passed a battery of tests administered Tuesday by Dr. Michael Collins, a renowned specialist in the area of sports-related concussions, at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Savard has been given clearance for contact and will rejoin the Bruins for their game-day skate Wednesday morning in Sunrise, Fla.
"There is no timetable at this time for Marc to start playing games," said Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli.
Savard, who sustained a concussion on March 7 when he was hit from behind by Cooke, was sidelined until a second-round playoff series against Philadelphia. He missed all of training camp before this season because of post-concussion symptoms.
Before the tests, Savard said he was confident he was ready for the next step.
"Feeling like myself, again," Savard said Monday. "There's still work to put in. It's still going to be a bit away from, obviously, playing games."
Savard had 10 goals and 23 assists last season when he was limited to 41 games.
Joe McDonald covers the Bruins for ESPNBoston.com.Boston Bruins GM Peter Chiarelli acknowledged in a conference call with the media Sunday that center Marc Savard may be out longer than expected due to post-concussion syndrome and very well could start the season on long-term injury reserve.
Long-term injury reserve requires a player miss 10 games and 24 days prior to returning.
"He'll have to go through normal protocol and pass all the tests, and once he's through that, we'll bring him along slowly," Chiarelli told ESPN's Pierre LeBrun. "He may be a month, a month and a half from officially getting on the ice. It could be two months, I don't know. It's tough to tell."
Earlier in the week, after a source told ESPNBoston.com it was "possible" that Savard could be out for the season, Chiarelli had issued a statement refuting the report and later said he thought the crafty pivot could be back in "short order."
"It could happen," Chiarelli said Sunday of Savard being placed on long-term injury reserve. "It is a little early to tell. Based on what he's been going through with the post-concussion symptoms, the time he's been experiencing it, and the time he hasn't been doing anything, it's tracking that way."
On Saturday Savard said that the toughest symptom he has been dealing with is depression. On Sunday, Chiarelli acknowledged that the team is working diligently to help Savard work through the depression issues. Savard is currently with the Bruins on a "team building" trip in Brattleboro, Vt.
"We've tried to help him along the way," Chiarelli said, while being careful to respect Savard's privacy. "I've talked to a number of people who have had it or experienced it in their life and experienced it in the workplace with other individuals in the workplace. I myself have never experienced it in the workplace. But I think all of us in all walks of life have experienced it with either relatives or family members or close friends. I have and I have had those types of experiences. It's a real delicate situation and he's been making progress."BOSTON -- Boston Bruins forward David Krejci was injured during a collision in overtime and was being examined at TD Garden following the team's 2-1 shootout loss to the St. Louis Blues Saturday night.
Krejci suffered a mild concussion, according to a team source, who added "but it's not bad." He also suffered a minor facial laceration.
Bruins coach Claude Julien, however, did not have an update after the game.
"Not yet," Julien said. "Obviously he got his bell rung there and we don't know what the severity is of it right now."
"I haven't even seen him. He's here and I'm told he's being evaluated, but I haven't had an opportunity to look at him."
With the game knotted at 1-1 with 4:16 remaining in overtime, Krejci and the Blues' T.J. Oshie collided in front of the penalty boxes with Krejci taking the worst of the hit. His head smashed against the boards. He lay on the ice and was attended to by team trainer Don DelNegro. Krejci was able to skate off the ice with some assistance from a couple of his teammates.
As far as the hit, Julien said he didn't see the replay.
Bruins defenseman Andrew Ference was on the ice at the time of the hit and said he didn't see it.
"Right before that I saw Oshie picking his elbow up on another guy, and he followed through pretty high on some other hits. I'm not sure if it's him who did the damage to Krejci, or the boards."
Oshie thought the hit was clean.
"It was two guys going at the puck," he said. "I tried to get low and get a good center of gravity. It looked like he was coming to hit me as well. It was a hard battle tonight. It was a physical game. I certainly hope that he's OK and he'll be right back."
Krejci suffered a season-ending wrist injury during Game 3 of the Eastern Conference semifinals against the Philadelphia Flyers last spring, and needed immediate surgery to repair the damage. He arrived at training camp this season healthy and ready to go. If Krejci is sidelined for an extended period of time, it will be a major loss for the Bruins.
"I saw the hit, it's tough, especially for a guy like [Krejci] who just battled back from an injury and is playing good," said Bruins goalie Tuukka Rask. "Hopefully it's nothing serious. He's a tough guy, he battles back."
Joe McDonald covers the Bruins for ESPNBoston.com.WILMINGTON, Mass. -- Boston Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli admitted Monday night that there has already been an internal discussion of whether or not to shut down center Marc Savard for the remainder of the 2010-2011 season due to his fourth career concussion.
Before a final decision is made, however, Savard will be re-evaluated on Wednesday in Boston.
"There is a strong possibility [of shutting him down], but you have to take it step by step," Chiarelli said in a phone conversation with ESPNBoston.com.
Savard remains at home in Peterborough, Ontario and he's still experiencing symptoms from a moderate concussion he suffered on Jan. 22.
Chiarelli, who is in Raleigh, N.C., with the Bruins as they prepare for their game against the Hurricanes on Tuesday, said he has not spoken with Savard. The team will likely wait to make a decision until after the player's examination on Wednesday.
"We still may not know the answer at that point," Chiarelli said.
Savard has suffered a total of four concussions during his career, including his last two in a 10-month period.
Chiarelli clearly explained the team's concern in regards to Savard's health, saying the process will dictate the next step.
"With the time between concussions, and with the severity of the concussion [last March], and the time between when he basically stopped having concussion symptoms, [shutting him down] is certainly something you would have to consider," Chiarelli said.
Savard suffered his most recent concussion on Jan. 22 against the Avalanche in Colorado when his head hit the bottom of the glass after a clean hit by former teammate Matt Hunwick. In fact, it was the second such hit he suffered in a week's time after he was hit by Penguins defenseman Deryk Engelland early in the third period on Jan. 15 at TD Garden.
Prior to last weekend's All-Star break, the team decided to send him home to rest before bringing him back to Boston this week.
"There is a possibility [of shutting Savard down], but nothing has been done and you have to see how Marc is," Chiarelli said. "Anytime you suffer a concussion, after having a severe concussion and the symptoms that he had, it is a possibility."
If the Bruins decide it would be in Savard's best interest to end his season, he would be placed on the long-term injured reserve and that would clear cap room in order for Chiarelli to acquire another impact player via trade if the GM believes the team needs it.
After the team's practice Monday afternoon at Ristuccia Arena, Bruins coach Claude Julien also gave a brief update on Savard's condition.
"He still has some symptoms. It hasn't totally disappeared," explained Julien. "We'll let the medical people deal with him when he gets back. Hopefully for his sake, not the team's sake, but more for his sake that he gets better.
"It's important for the individual here that he takes care of himself. The organization, medical staff, upper management and everybody has always done the right thing as far as that's concerned, and that won't change."
Savard missed the start of the season due to post-concussion syndrome, the direct result of a Grade 2 concussion he suffered last March when he was on the receiving end of a blindside by the Penguins' Matt Cooke on March 7.
After missing nearly two months, Savard was deemed 100 percent healthy and given medical clearance to return to game action in time for the Eastern Conference semifinals against the Philadelphia Flyers last spring.
Savard played all seven games before the Bruins lost the series and Boston's offseason began. During the summer, while he prepared for training camp, Savard started to experience post-concussion syndrome. As a result, he missed camp and the first 23 games of the season.
Once again, he was deemed 100 percent healthy by the team's medical staff, and also by an independent expert, and returned to the lineup on Dec. 2.
He played a total of 25 games and registered 2 goals and 8 assists for 10 points, while posting a minus-7 rating.
Joe McDonald covers the Bruins for ESPNBoston.com.The Boston Bruins announced Saturday that they have signed defenseman Shane Hnidy to a one-year contract. Hnidy had been on a tryout and practiced with the team since Wednesday.
Hnidy joined the Bruins on the ice in Vancouver on Wednesday. He has yet to be cleared to play by doctors and wasn't in the Boston lineup against the host Canucks on Saturday night.
The 35-year-old Hnidy -- who spent two seasons with the Bruins in 2007-08 and 2008-09 -- hasn't played since last season, when he suited up for the Minnesota Wild. He tore his rotator cuff in the Phoenix Coyotes'
training camp last fall.
Hnidy has 16 goals, 71 points and 631 penalty minutes in 547 NHL games with six teams over nine seasons.
The Bruins also signed minor league forward Kirk MacDonald, who was playing on an AHL contract this season. He will remain with the Bruins' AHL Providence affiliate.
James Murphy covers the Bruins for ESPNBoston.com. Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.BOSTON -- The Montreal Canadiens are now questioning the viewpoint of a future Hall of Famer.
While Canadiens coach Jacques Martin said that he neither read nor heard the comments made by Boston Bruins veteran Mark Recchi that he thought the Montreal organization "embellished" the concussion suffered by Max Pacioretty on a hit by Zdeno Chara, his teammates were puzzled by them.
"We heard those comments yesterday," Montreal blueliner Paul Mara said Thursday morning in advance of the game between the Bruins and Canadiens at TD Garden. "A player with a broken vertebra and has been knocked out on the ice for 3 or 4 minutes, how do you question the integrity of a hockey team and that we're embellishing it? [It] is really questionable coming from a guy who's 42 years old and has been around the league for so long. He's entitled to his opinion and we're entitled to ours, but in Montreal we really know the truth."
The NHL did not punish Chara for his March 8 hit on Pacioretty, which left the Canadiens forward hospitalized with what the team called a cracked vertebra in his neck and a severe concussion. That decision caused an uproar in Montreal, where police launched a criminal probe into Chara's hit.BOSTON -- Boston police reported several arrests but few serious incidents as Bruins fans reveled in the team's first Stanley Cup championship in nearly four decades. Precautions taken Wednesday allowed the city to avoid the violence and destruction that have plagued past sports celebrations.
Cheers erupted from fans who packed bars and restaurants to watch the Bruins defeat the Vancouver Canucks 4-0 Wednesday in the seventh and deciding game of the series. Many had not been born when Boston last won the Cup in 1972.
"I'm a diehard Bruins fan and I wanted to be in Boston for it," said Colleen Liffers, 22, of Newburyport, Mass. "This is so unbelievable."
Liffers and her friends left the nightclub Howl at the Moon after the game ended. Like many fans, they headed directly for the TD Garden, the home of the Bruins. There they planned to continue celebrating although the team was thousands of miles away in Vancouver.
But they were met by hundreds of police officers, some in riot gear. Streets were closed to traffic and barricades were set up.
Video from a television station showed fans surrounding and rocking a bus that was carrying some police units to the scene. State police said some unruly fans pulled down street signs, and some climbed on parked cars.
Yet it appeared that police were able to act on lessons learned from recent Boston sports titles. Raucous celebrations after big wins by the New England Patriots, Boston Red Sox and Boston Celtics in the past seven years have resulted in three deaths and widespread vandalism.
"It's fair to say that the vast majority of fans celebrated responsibly, and officers have done an excellent job of keeping order," Elaine Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the Boston police, said early Thursday.
Driscoll said there were no immediate reports of injuries. She said police would not have an exact count on arrests until later in the day.
In Vancouver, disappointed fans set some cars on fire and tipped over others after their team's loss.
Boston Mayor Thomas Menino told WFXT-TV that he was unaware of any major damage or looting.
Fans celebrate outside of TD Garden in Boston after the Bruins won their first Stanley Cup since 1972. Jim Rogash/Getty Images
Barricades surrounded a statue depicting one of the most iconic moments in Bruins history -- Bobby Orr flying through the air after scoring the goal that won the Stanley Cup in 1970. Authorities did not want exuberant fans climbing on the statue.
Bars were asked to take in or secure outdoor furniture, black out windows to prevent crowds from gathering outside to watch the TVs inside, and not admit any customers after the end of the game's second period. This didn't deter fans, though. Many bars near the TD Garden were at capacity even before the start of the game and some fans were turned away.
"This is the best city in the world. It's the best sports city in the world," said 53-year-old Bob Hay, an East Boston resident who watched the game at Sports Grill Boston near the TD Garden. "I'm very proud to be a Boston sports fan."
Hay, who was a boy the last time the Bruins were on top in the hockey world, bought a Tim Thomas T-shirt on Wednesday. He wanted to honor the remarkable performance by the Boston goalie, who was named the series MVP after allowing only eight goals in seven games and posting two shutouts.
The Bruins and their fans had waited their turn as the Patriots won three Super Bowls, the Red Sox two World Series titles and the Celtics an NBA title in the last decade.
The last Stanley Cup championship was won by the team nicknamed the "Big Bad Bruins," featuring greats like Orr, Phil Esposito and Derek Sanderson. Boston was known as a "hockey town" back then, and the team was arguably more popular than even the revered Red Sox.
But the love affair waned over the years as the team's fortunes sagged, and the Bruins struggled to keep pace with the city's more successful sports franchises.
Fans are confident the return of the Stanley Cup to will bring the Bruins -- and hockey -- back to the forefront of the city's sports culture.
Menino said city officials would meet Thursday to discuss plans for a parade. No date was set.Roberto Luongo thought he was untradeable. The Panthers found a way to bring him back to Florida.
After nearly eight years apart, Luongo was the centerpiece of a four-player trade between Florida and the Vancouver Canucks on Tuesday. The Panthers sent goalie Jacob Markstrom -- once considered their future in net -- and forward Shawn Matthias to the Canucks for Luongo and forward Steven Anthony.
"Stunned. I was not expecting it," Luongo told TSN Radio. "I'm happy for myself and my family but a little sad to be leaving Vancouver."
It's a bold move for the Panthers, who almost certainly will wind up missing the playoffs for the 13th time in the past 14 seasons.
"It was really out of the blue. I was not expecting it at all," Luongo said. "I thought my contract was immovable. I would never thought I would be traded before the deadline."
Florida already has undergone a coaching change this season from Kevin Dineen to Peter Horachek, and the big trade comes one day after longtime team president and CEO Michael Yormark announced he was leaving the organization to work for rap mogul Jay Z and his Roc Nation agency.
Nonetheless, the Panthers found a way to make a huge deal, and bring back a three-time Vezina Trophy finalist and two-time Olympic gold medalist.
"We're getting a great goaltender, a proven commodity,'' Panthers general manager Dale Tallon said. "Jacob has got great upside but we needed to make a statement and Luongo's numbers are terrific. He's already been in this community and is a very popular figure in the South Florida area. And I just like what he brings to the table, giving us stability and his experience and a chance for us to win. You have to pay the price to get guys like this.''
Luongo voiced his gratitude for Vancouver via Twitter.
Thank you Vancouver for a great 8 years! Really appreciative of all the support especially the last little while. I will miss the LOOO'ing!! - Strombone (@strombone1) March 5, 2014
Luongo, who is under contract through the 2021-22 season, is 19-16-6 with a 2.38 goals-against average and a .917 save percentage in 42 games this season with the Canucks. Vancouver will take on some of his remaining contract, a league source told ESPN.com.
Luongo spent parts of eight seasons with Vancouver, which acquired him from Florida in 2006. His time with the Canucks was often rocky, and now he heads to Florida -- where Tim Thomas, the goalie who beat Luongo when Boston topped Vancouver in the Stanley Cup finals in 2011, is also on the roster, a quirk that surely will make for interesting conversation.
Thomas, after the Panthers lost 4-1 in Boston on Tuesday night, was jovial and humorous when asked about Luongo.
"I did have one good line that probably somebody else has already thought of: It looked like Dale went kicking some tires and found one that needed pumping," Thomas said with a laugh, referring to a comment Luongo made during the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.
During that series, the opposing goaltenders traded verbal jabs with Luongo first saying of Thomas, "I've been pumping his tires ever since the series started and I haven't heard one nice thing he had to say about me."
Roberto Luongo was 19-16-6 with a 2.38 GAA for the Canucks this season. Anne-Marie Sorvin/USA TODAY Sports
Thomas responded by saying, "I didn't realize it was my job to pump his tires."
The Cup finals in 2011 also ended with Thomas earning the Conn Smythe trophy.
"It'll be interesting, but you know what, I don't know how things are going to work out, but assuming I'm staying in Florida, it'll be interesting," Thomas said. "I'm looking forward to it. It'll be fun."
Thomas stressed that he does not consider Luongo an enemy.
"No, not at all," Thomas said. "I wasn't an enemy with him even [in 2011]. I was so focused on playing and doing my job and that's the way I was looking at it. So, yeah, we're both pros, both been in the league a long time. I have a few more years on him, obviously, but we both have a lot of experience to bring to the team."
Luongo, who signed a 12-year extension in 2009 in a deal paying him about $64 million through 2022, had been expected to start for Vancouver in Phoenix on Tuesday night. A few hours before that game would have started, he posted a palm tree icon on his Twitter feed.
The message was simple: He's going home, or at least to the place he has long considered home.
A three-time All-Star, the 34-year-old Luongo spent five seasons earlier in his career with the Panthers.
Matthias, 26, had nine goals and seven assists in 59 games this season for the Panthers.
Markstrom, 24, is 1-6-3 with a 3.52 GAA in 12 games this season. He was a second-round pick in the 2008 draft.
The Panthers also traded defenseman Mike Weaver to Montreal for a fifth-round draft choice in 2015.
Information from ESPN The Magazine's Craig Custance, ESPNNewYork.com's Katie Strang, ESPN.com's Pierre LeBrun, ESPNBoston.com's Joe McDonald and The Associated Press was used in this report.BOSTON -- The Boston Bruins on Wednesday acquired defenseman Andrej Meszaros from the Philadelphia Flyers in exchange for a third-round draft pick.
Meszaros, 28, is a left-handed shot and has 517 games of NHL experience over nine seasons. He also has played for the Ottawa Senators and Tampa Bay Lightning. He was a teammate of Bruins captain Zdeno Chara and forward Chris Kelly in Ottawa, where Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli was the assistant GM at the time.
"Mezz skates extremely well, he's got a great shot and he's a big body," Kelly said. "He's a big, big guy. You'll see. He's a big, strong guy."
Meszaros will join the Bruins for Thursday's home game against the Washington Capitals.
"I'm really excited, obviously," Meszaros said. "It's a great opportunity, a great team and a great organization that I'm happy to be a part of. Obviously, I really liked it here in Philadelphia; it was great -- great guys, great organization. But this year wasn't working for me. I wasn't playing much, I was in and out of the lineup, so I'm happy now that I have the opportunity now to play hopefully more consistently and [get] better. I'm happy it will be a new, fresh start for me and I'm really excited."
The 6-foot-2, 220-pound Meszaros played in 38 games for the Flyers this season and was a healthy scratch in more than 20, with five goals and 12 assists for 17 points. He is averaging 17:22 of ice time per game and was a member of the Slovakian Olympic team.
Boston's defensive systems are different than he is used to, but he's confident he'll be able to make a seamless transition.
"I think every system is different and I don't think it's going to be hard for me to adjust to that," he said. "I think I'm pretty easy, anything the coach will tell me to do, I think I can pick it up really quickly. So I don't think I should have any problem with that."
The third-round pick Boston surrendered to Philadelphia to acquire Meszaros would become a second-round selection if the Bruins advance to the Eastern Conference finals this season and Meszaros plays in two-thirds of Boston's playoff games, or if Boston re-signs him prior to the start of the 2014 NHL draft. If those conditions aren't met but Boston re-signs Meszaros after the draft, Philadelphia would receive the Bruins' 2015 fourth-round pick in addition to the 2014 third-rounder.
In a minor deal Wednesday, the Bruins also claimed defenseman Corey Potter off waivers from the Edmonton Oilers.
Potter, 30, has spent the majority of his pro career in the AHL and has 120 games of NHL experience. Like Bruins defenseman Torey Krug, Potter is a product of Michigan State.
"I've known him for the last couple of years, and he's a real steady player," Krug said after the team's practice Wednesday at Ristuccia Arena. "He's not going to blow you away. He does everything well and has a real hard shot. He's a great personality, and I think the guys are going to enjoy him in the locker room, and that's what he brings to the table."
Potter played in 16 games for the Oilers and had five assists.
After Bruins defenseman Dennis Seidenberg suffered a season-ending knee injury in December, Chiarelli said he wanted to add depth to the blue line. Since Bruins defenseman Adam McQuaid (quad strain) remains sidelined and has been shut down for the next two to three weeks, the additions of Meszaros and Potter will help even things out for Boston.
Both additions are expected to arrive in Boston on Thursday, and it will be up to coach Claude Julien as to how he will insert them into the lineup.
Chiarelli has been scouting the Flyers for the past two months, and he watched all four of Slovakia's games during the Olympics. The GM also spoke with Chara about the possible addition of Meszaros, and everyone thought it was a good move.
"He's a big defenseman, thick defenseman," Chiarelli said.
Meszaros can play both sides, is heavy on the puck and likes to move it, Chiarelli said.
During his evening news conference, Chiarelli said the past three days have been busy. He entertained other options and said he was close on a few things, but he is comfortable with what he was able to accomplish.
"My main intention today was to bolster our depth," Chiarelli said.
Chiarelli described Potter as a two-way defenseman with good range and solid defensive skills.
As currently constituted, Chiarelli is pleased with the size, strength and ability of the team's defensive core. With Chara, Krug, Dougie Hamilton, Matt Bartkowski, Kevan Miller and Johnny Boychuk already manning the blue line for Boston, Potter and Meszaros will add to the depth Chiarelli was looking for.
"The defense isn't about one player, it's about the group as a whole and how they interact. That's the way our system is and that's the way our coach coaches," Chiarelli said. "These guys both are smart players, so it may take them some time, it usually takes time for the D to adapt to our system, new D we've brought in, and I expect the same to happen with these two. It's a good system, a system of trust, and I know they can both contribute to the group."Boston is the front-runner to host the 2016 Winter Classic outdoor game, a source told ESPN.com, which would make the Bruins the first repeat hosts of the NHL's marquee regular-season game.
Negotiations are still ongoing to make this a reality and it's unclear where the game would be played or even when.
The NHL moved the Winter Classic in 2012 from its traditional Jan. 1 date to Jan. 2, in part to avoid conflicting with the National Football League's schedule.
All other Winter Classics have been held on Jan. 1.
The Bruins hosted the 2010 Winter Classic at Fenway Park against the Philadelphia Flyers.
"We have told the league we would love to host another Winter Classic. As of today, I have not heard anything back regarding next year," Bruins team president and Hall of Famer Cam Neely told ESPN.com on Friday morning.
Of the current Bruins players, only Patrice Bergeron, Zdeno Chara, David Krejci, Tuukka Rask and Milan Lucic were on the team for the Winter Classic at Fenway in 2010. Rask served as the backup to Tim Thomas, and Lucic was sidelined with an injury. Both hope the Bruins host the Classic next season.
"It would be great," Lucic said. "It's obviously something that's been a game guys get excited for and it is such a special event. Unfortunately, I missed the last one, and if we do get to host the next one hopefully I don't go through the same type of [injury-plagued] season and I can play in it."
Would he prefer Fenway or Gillette Stadium?
"Doesn't really matter I don't think," he said. "From a fan's point of view I think Gillette would be more suitable for the fans just because of the way the field is set up. It would just be nice to play in any of them."
Added Rask: "Yeah, all new experiences are welcomed. It would be fun. I was part of it but didn't play. It would be great."
The NHL is also believed to be looking at hosting three additional outdoor games next season as part of its Stadium Series of games and another in the Canadian-based Heritage Classic series.
Sources have indicated that the Minnesota Wild and Colorado Avalanche are the lead candidates to host the Stadium Series games, likely in late January or February 2016, while Winnipeg has been tabbed as the potential host of the Heritage Classic in Canada.WASHINGTON -- Before most hockey games, it's tough to find many players who stand completely still during the national anthem.
Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas never moves. He stands as still as the Statue of Liberty, with his focus directly on the American flag that hangs from the rafters in every NHL arena. There's no denying Thomas' patriotism. He represented Team USA as an Olympian and has called it one of his most memorable moments of his career.
But when the president of the United States invites you and all your teammates to the White House to honor your Stanley Cup championship, you go and represent the team.
On Monday, Thomas instead chose to represent himself.
The reigning Vezina and Conn Smythe winner skipped the White House ceremony, deciding to use a special moment for the organization, the team and its fans to voice his displeasure with the U.S. government.
Thomas posted a message on his Facebook page on Monday night explaining his decision.
"I believe the Federal government has grown out of control, threatening the Rights, Liberties, and Property of the People," the message read. "This is being done at the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial level. This is in direct opposition to the Constitution and the Founding Fathers vision for the Federal government.
"Because I believe this, today I exercised my right as a Free Citizen, and did not visit the White House. This was not about politics or party, as in my opinion both parties are responsible for the situation we are in as a country. This was about a choice I had to make as an INDIVIDUAL.
"This is the only public statement I will be making on this topic. TT"
In earlier posts on his Facebook page, Thomas writes about the Bruins' recent shootout victory in Philadelphia on Sunday, calling it "a big TEAM" win, and added his congrats to the New England Patriots on their "big TEAM" win in the AFC Championship Game.
That sentiment was missing in Thomas's decision not to go to the White House.
Bruins GM Peter Chiarelli said Thomas would not be suspended for not attending the team function.
The Bruins' organization has prided itself, especially under team president Cam Neely, Chiarelli and coach Claude Julien, in being a true team. During the Cup run last spring, management, coaches and players alike spoke at length about the team's chemistry.
So it was odd that Thomas chose this stage to make a statement by not attending the White House visit with the rest of his teammates, especially given the fact that he is one of only two Americans on the Cup-winning team.
All of the Bruins -- except their Vezina Trophy-winning goaltender -- enjoyed being honored by President Obama at the White House. Alex Wong/Getty Images
Julien is all about team-building exercises. During every training camp, he takes the team on a weekend trip. In fact, any chance he gets to create a team-bonding situation Julien jumps at the chance, as he did during the first round of the playoffs last season when the Bruins spent a couple of days in Lake Placid, N.Y., between Games 3 and 4 in Montreal.
Monday at the White House was another one of those opportunities.
"I think our whole team is ecstatic about what this day did for us," Julien said. "You talk about team-bonding situations, this is certainly one of them."
From the time the players arrived until the time they left, everyone seemed thrilled about this opportunity. There's no way any player on this team will publically disagree with Thomas' decision, but this one could come back to kick him between his goalie pads.
With the exception of Thomas and Michael Ryder (who plays for the Dallas Stars and couldn't make it), everyone on the 2011 Cup roster attended the event, including Mark Recchi and Shane Hnidy, who are both retired, and Tomas Kaberle, who now plays for the Montreal Canadiens.
Bruins captain Zdeno Chara was informed Monday morning that Thomas would not be attending the event.
"Honestly, I don't have any thoughts about it," Chara said. "That's what he decided to do and the rest of it is up to him."
Thomas' decision will no doubt spark a massive debate. He's a fan favorite. He can be considered the greatest goalie in franchise history. Earlier in his career when he played overseas, he was considered a hockey god in Finland for all his success there.
His absence, however, will have a lasting effect on his boy-next-door image.
"Everybody has their own opinions and political beliefs and he chose not to join us," Bruins team president Cam Neely said. "We certainly would have liked to have him come and join us, but that's his choice. Obviously, it's not a choice that most of the guys, all the guys came except for Tim. That's his decision and his choice."
Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli spoke with Thomas to no avail.
"I don't have a real reason right now," Chiarelli said Monday morning. "He chose not to show up. I believe he's doing a statement later. That's all I can tell you right now."
During his speech, President Obama spoke glowingly about Thomas and his performance during the Stanley Cup playoffs.
"This Stanley Cup was won by defense as much as by offense," Obama said. "Tim Thomas posted two shutouts in the Stanley Cup finals and set an all-time record for saves in the postseason, and he also earned the honor being only the second American ever to be recognized as the Stanley Cup playoffs MVP."
Thomas' absence was uncalled for. The president has more important things to worry about with Tuesday's State of the Union address.
But it's going to be interesting to see what this does to the State of the Bruins.
Joe McDonald covers the Bruins for ESPNBoston.com.OTTAWA -- Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas, who has become something of a political lightning rod lately, weighed in Friday on his beliefs that the federal government is "out of control."
Thomas, who's drawn criticism for choosing not to attend the White House ceremony Jan. 23 honoring the reigning Stanley Cup champion team, reiterated that he believes his decision has been blown out of proportion.
"[The controversy] is all media-driven and it has been from the start. Everything that I said and did was as an individual. It was not as a representative of the Boston Bruins," Thomas said Friday at All-Star Weekend in Ottawa. "All it has to do is with me. But it's separate from hockey. That's my personal life and those are my personal views. Those are my personal beliefs. It has nothing to do with hockey. It has nothing to do with this All-Star Game. It has nothing to do with the Boston Bruins."
Despite being chastised publicly by the likes of Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick and Sen. Scott Brown, Thomas remained unfazed Friday by the controversy that seemingly won't die.
"I don't think I should address stuff that's made up out of thin air," Thomas said. "I would really appreciate if people would leave my teammates and my family out of it. I'm looking forward to getting back on the ice because that's what I do and that's what I love. I'm still going to have a lot of fun with it."BOSTON -- Following Monday night's Stanley Cup finals loss to the Chicago Blackhawks, Bruins forward Patrice Bergeron told reporters that he had been playing with a broken rib and torn rib cartilage, as well as a separated shoulder suffered during Monday's Game 6.
Bergeron didn't specify how long he has been playing with the broken rib and torn cartilage, but he said he continued to play after the shoulder injury Monday.
In 24 shifts totaling 17:45 of ice time Monday night, the star center was 5-for-11 on faceoffs and registered two hits. During Game 5 on Saturday in Chicago, Bergeron left the ice in the second period and later was taken to an area hospital. Bergeron said the reason for the visit was concern about potential damage to his spleen.
"I think it was more they were worried about my spleen being hurt, that's why I went to the hospital: check on my spine, muscles and so forth," Bergeron said. "Obviously, I would have liked to stay in there, but I was obviously going through a lot of pain."
"The year we won [2011], he was doing the same thing: fighting through everything," Tyler Seguin said of Bergeron. "Obviously, guys have bumps and bruises, but he's a guy that you obviously say is the heart and soul of our team. He wears that 'B' with a lot of pride."
Bergeron wasn't the only Bruins player fighting injury.
Forward Nathan Horton had also been playing with a separated shoulder, according to a team source.
Star defenseman Zdeno Chara, who was on the ice for 10 of the last 12 Chicago goals, played through "bumps and bruises," but no serious injury, a team source said.
ESPNBoston.com's Joe McDonald and James Murphy contributed to this report.The 2018-19 NHL season is months away, and Alex Ovechkin and his Washington Capitals are still celebrating the franchise's first championship. No matter. There are a handful of teams worth considering making an early futures wager on to win the Stanley Cup next season.
Keep in mind, when looking for value this early, it is smart to seek out the longer shots rather than focus on the more likely champions. Those short odds aren't likely to improve greatly, so there is no value to making a bet now, with the exact level of a team's prowess still unclear. Instead, look for the teams that are likely to be much better than the current offseason odds given to them.
With that said, the Tampa Bay Lightning currently sit at 7-1 and have a strong chance at still landing Erik Karlsson via trade to improve an already stacked roster. If you can get the Bolts at that number, do it. Karlsson would make the Cup favorites even better, and you won't see odds that low on Tampa Bay for the rest of the season. You could do worse than the Winnipeg Jets at 10-1 as well. If you are looking for real value, however, here are three teams that are a good bet now.
Note: All odds are via Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook as of July 10.With the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs complete, here are the odds for every NHL team to win the 2016-17 Cup.
Odds courtesy of the Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook, as of May 16.Doug Kezirian breaks down the betting atmosphere in Las Vegas with the Golden Knights and the chip on the shoulder mentality from the people of Vegas. (2:12)
The Vegas Golden Knights are dominating more than just the Stanley Cup playoffs. They've become a focal point at Las Vegas sportsbooks, populating video boards in a way the NHL never has before.
"Whenever the Knights are playing, we have to put them on the main screen with audio," Jay Kornegay, vice president of the Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook, told ESPN. "This is the first time that we've featured hockey games over the NBA playoffs."
Sportsbooks offer a smorgasbord of viewing options: Monitors scattered across the wall televising a litany of games. However, only one broadcast can be heard on the speaker system.
"Generally, we just use our judgment for the biggest game. It's usually pretty easy and common sense, but the Knights changed all that," CG Technology vice president Jason Simbal said, recalling the first time he noticed fans break protocol and choose hockey over the city's and nation's most popular sport.
"On New Year's Eve against the Toronto Maple Leafs, people cared more about the Knights than the NFL," Simbal said. "It was Week 17, but still that stood out and it first really kicked in."
By that time, oddsmakers had already also noticed historic action. The expansion hometown team was drawing an average of 15 times more bets than their opponents. Simbal said the Knights solely accounted for 30 percent of CG Technology's hockey handle, which is about three times more than any team in any sport. For comparison, the New England Patriots were the most bet-on team in the NFL, and they garnered just 8 percent of the total NFL handle.
"Every morning when I got the profit and loss sheet, basketball we did good, baseball we did good, we lost again in hockey," South Point oddsmaker Jimmy Vaccaro said, referencing the Knights' 8-1 start to its inaugural season. "That's when you knew you had to deal with it differently than you normally would."
Until this year's record hockey handle, bookmakers rarely noticed the sport. In fact, in its monthly revenue reports, the Nevada Gaming Control Board groups hockey with tennis and golf in a category labeled "Other," while football and basketball warrant separate distinctions.
"When I started in the '70s, we didn't even book hockey," Vaccaro said, sharing that odds were first posted in the mid-1980s. "Hockey wasn't even on our mind. Nobody even asked for it."
In Clark County, where Las Vegas is located, the "Other" category's handle was $214 million during the months of hockey's regular season (October to March). That is a 36 percent increase from $157 million of the previous hockey calendar, which predated the Golden Knights.
"There's absolutely no doubt in my mind that about 40 percent of the people betting hockey now never bet it before the Golden Knights came," Vaccaro said.
play 3:23 Golden Knights' success trouble for Vegas bookmakers As Golden Knights fans enjoy the team's playoff run, Las Vegas oddsmakers stand to lose millions if the new hometown team wins the Stanley Cup.
The betting increase extends beyond the hometown Knights. For example, Vaccaro said the South Point book has a higher handle this year for Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals than last year.
"There's definitely some runoff from the Golden Knights," Kornegay said. "More people are following hockey than before. Some are just getting familiar with teams they see in person or watch on television."
Vaccaro, a four-decade Vegas veteran, saw a similar betting spike in the 1992-93 season, when Wayne Gretzky led the nearby Los Angeles Kings to the Stanley Cup Final, but betting action subsided within two years.
It's hard to imagine this fan base repeating that trend of immediate decline after the spike. Bars and hotels are holding official watch parties, and it is difficult to go anywhere without seeing fans wearing black and gold jerseys.
"You'd think it was V-J Day in 1945 with the sailor kissing the girl. Everywhere you go, you see flags and signs," Vaccaro said.
Now just imagine a Stanley Cup parade down the Las Vegas Strip.Doug Kezirian breaks down the betting atmosphere in Las Vegas with the Golden Knights and the chip on the shoulder mentality from the people of Vegas. (2:12)
The Vegas Golden Knights are dominating more than just the Stanley Cup playoffs. They've become a focal point at Las Vegas sportsbooks, populating video boards in a way the NHL never has before.
"Whenever the Knights are playing, we have to put them on the main screen with audio," Jay Kornegay, vice president of the Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook, told ESPN. "This is the first time that we've featured hockey games over the NBA playoffs."
Sportsbooks offer a smorgasbord of viewing options: Monitors scattered across the wall televising a litany of games. However, only one broadcast can be heard on the speaker system.
"Generally, we just use our judgment for the biggest game. It's usually pretty easy and common sense, but the Knights changed all that," CG Technology vice president Jason Simbal said, recalling the first time he noticed fans break protocol and choose hockey over the city's and nation's most popular sport.
"On New Year's Eve against the Toronto Maple Leafs, people cared more about the Knights than the NFL," Simbal said. "It was Week 17, but still that stood out and it first really kicked in."
By that time, oddsmakers had already also noticed historic action. The expansion hometown team was drawing an average of 15 times more bets than their opponents. Simbal said the Knights solely accounted for 30 percent of CG Technology's hockey handle, which is about three times more than any team in any sport. For comparison, the New England Patriots were the most bet-on team in the NFL, and they garnered just 8 percent of the total NFL handle.
"Every morning when I got the profit and loss sheet, basketball we did good, baseball we did good, we lost again in hockey," South Point oddsmaker Jimmy Vaccaro said, referencing the Knights' 8-1 start to its inaugural season. "That's when you knew you had to deal with it differently than you normally would."
Until this year's record hockey handle, bookmakers rarely noticed the sport. In fact, in its monthly revenue reports, the Nevada Gaming Control Board groups hockey with tennis and golf in a category labeled "Other," while football and basketball warrant separate distinctions.
"When I started in the '70s, we didn't even book hockey," Vaccaro said, sharing that odds were first posted in the mid-1980s. "Hockey wasn't even on our mind. Nobody even asked for it."
In Clark County, where Las Vegas is located, the "Other" category's handle was $214 million during the months of hockey's regular season (October to March). That is a 36 percent increase from $157 million of the previous hockey calendar, which predated the Golden Knights.
"There's absolutely no doubt in my mind that about 40 percent of the people betting hockey now never bet it before the Golden Knights came," Vaccaro said.
play 3:23 Golden Knights' success trouble for Vegas bookmakers As Golden Knights fans enjoy the team's playoff run, Las Vegas oddsmakers stand to lose millions if the new hometown team wins the Stanley Cup.
The betting increase extends beyond the hometown Knights. For example, Vaccaro said the South Point book has a higher handle this year for Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals than last year.
"There's definitely some runoff from the Golden Knights," Kornegay said. "More people are following hockey than before. Some are just getting familiar with teams they see in person or watch on television."
Vaccaro, a four-decade Vegas veteran, saw a similar betting spike in the 1992-93 season, when Wayne Gretzky led the nearby Los Angeles Kings to the Stanley Cup Final, but betting action subsided within two years.
It's hard to imagine this fan base repeating that trend of immediate decline after the spike. Bars and hotels are holding official watch parties, and it is difficult to go anywhere without seeing fans wearing black and gold jerseys.
"You'd think it was V-J Day in 1945 with the sailor kissing the girl. Everywhere you go, you see flags and signs," Vaccaro said.
Now just imagine a Stanley Cup parade down the Las Vegas Strip.The NHL and its teams have been quick to embrace legalized sports wagering in the U.S. after the Supreme Court ruled in May that the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 was unconstitutional.
The league has partnered with MGM Resorts as its "official sports wagering partner," and it announced on Monday that FanDuel is an "official sports betting partner of the league." The New Jersey Devils have a sponsorship deal with FanDuel and two spaces that encourage wagering at Prudential Center branded by William Hill and Caesars. The Vegas Golden Knights also have a sponsorship deal with William Hill, as Nevada and New Jersey are currently the only states with NHL teams to have legalized sports betting.
Appearing on the ESPN ON ICE podcast, Los Angeles Kings president Luc Robitaille said there could be a windfall of revenue in the NHL if hockey wagering takes hold.
"If teams profit, then everybody will profit," he said. "If you go by the numbers on the illegal part, it's pretty significant. If that part ends up on the team side, I think it's going help everyone. First of all, the [salary] cap will go up. Fans will be happy. Teams will spend more money on players. Players' salaries will go up."
But Robitaille believes that the revenue created around sports wagering -- advertising, sponsorships and the like -- could be so considerable that the savings might be passed on to the fans.
"You would think this would help with always putting the pressure on fans to keep paying ... hockey is still a ticket business, primarily. Hopefully that helps offset some of the ticket pricing. I'm not sure about it, but it could if the money is significant enough. There's a lot that could go around it," he said.
"I'm not going to guarantee it's going to bring down ticket prices, but it might hold the raise a little bit. If a team plans on raising ticket prices by 8 percent, they might only raise them by 5 or 4 percent. If there's a lot more money at the table, it makes everybody's life easier."
The NHL's annual revenue "may increase" by $216 million due to legalized sports wagering, according to a Nielsen Sports study commissioned by the American Gaming Association. That includes an estimated $65 million in revenue from sportsbooks' advertising with the NHL.The NHL and its teams have been quick to embrace legalized sports wagering in the U.S. after the Supreme Court ruled in May that the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 was unconstitutional.
The league has partnered with MGM Resorts as its "official sports wagering partner," and it announced on Monday that FanDuel is an "official sports betting partner of the league." The New Jersey Devils have a sponsorship deal with FanDuel and two spaces that encourage wagering at Prudential Center branded by William Hill and Caesars. The Vegas Golden Knights also have a sponsorship deal with William Hill, as Nevada and New Jersey are currently the only states with NHL teams to have legalized sports betting.
Appearing on the ESPN ON ICE podcast, Los Angeles Kings president Luc Robitaille said there could be a windfall of revenue in the NHL if hockey wagering takes hold.
"If teams profit, then everybody will profit," he said. "If you go by the numbers on the illegal part, it's pretty significant. If that part ends up on the team side, I think it's going help everyone. First of all, the [salary] cap will go up. Fans will be happy. Teams will spend more money on players. Players' salaries will go up."
But Robitaille believes that the revenue created around sports wagering -- advertising, sponsorships and the like -- could be so considerable that the savings might be passed on to the fans.
"You would think this would help with always putting the pressure on fans to keep paying ... hockey is still a ticket business, primarily. Hopefully that helps offset some of the ticket pricing. I'm not sure about it, but it could if the money is significant enough. There's a lot that could go around it," he said.
"I'm not going to guarantee it's going to bring down ticket prices, but it might hold the raise a little bit. If a team plans on raising ticket prices by 8 percent, they might only raise them by 5 or 4 percent. If there's a lot more money at the table, it makes everybody's life easier."
The NHL's annual revenue "may increase" by $216 million due to legalized sports wagering, according to a Nielsen Sports study commissioned by the American Gaming Association. That includes an estimated $65 million in revenue from sportsbooks' advertising with the NHL.The NHL and its teams have been quick to embrace legalized sports wagering in the U.S. after the Supreme Court ruled in May that the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 was unconstitutional.
The league has partnered with MGM Resorts as its "official sports wagering partner," and it announced on Monday that FanDuel is an "official sports betting partner of the league." The New Jersey Devils have a sponsorship deal with FanDuel and two spaces that encourage wagering at Prudential Center branded by William Hill and Caesars. The Vegas Golden Knights also have a sponsorship deal with William Hill, as Nevada and New Jersey are currently the only states with NHL teams to have legalized sports betting.
Appearing on the ESPN ON ICE podcast, Los Angeles Kings president Luc Robitaille said there could be a windfall of revenue in the NHL if hockey wagering takes hold.
"If teams profit, then everybody will profit," he said. "If you go by the numbers on the illegal part, it's pretty significant. If that part ends up on the team side, I think it's going help everyone. First of all, the [salary] cap will go up. Fans will be happy. Teams will spend more money on players. Players' salaries will go up."
But Robitaille believes that the revenue created around sports wagering -- advertising, sponsorships and the like -- could be so considerable that the savings might be passed on to the fans.
"You would think this would help with always putting the pressure on fans to keep paying ... hockey is still a ticket business, primarily. Hopefully that helps offset some of the ticket pricing. I'm not sure about it, but it could if the money is significant enough. There's a lot that could go around it," he said.
"I'm not going to guarantee it's going to bring down ticket prices, but it might hold the raise a little bit. If a team plans on raising ticket prices by 8 percent, they might only raise them by 5 or 4 percent. If there's a lot more money at the table, it makes everybody's life easier."
The NHL's annual revenue "may increase" by $216 million due to legalized sports wagering, according to a Nielsen Sports study commissioned by the American Gaming Association. That includes an estimated $65 million in revenue from sportsbooks' advertising with the NHL.CHICAGO -- He wanted to start his rehab before the anaesthesia from surgery had worn off. Adam Burish had just been picked up by his agent at the hospital after undergoing surgery on his torn right ACL on Sept. 26.
"I took him home, and before I knew it, the ice and rehab machines are in his bedroom and he's ready to go," agent Bill Zito recalled. "The drugs from the hospital hadn't even worn off. I couldn't believe it."
That was over five months ago, days after suffering the injury in a preseason game against the Minnesota Wild. Rehab may have waited a few days, but when it started, Burish never looked back. He returned to the lineup Wednesday night against the Los Angeles Kings, after missing 65 games.
Before the game, he said he was more than ready.
"I feel better than I did before, and I think it's because you never get five months to do nothing but get ready," Burish said. "I would have liked to play a week after. The guys were busting my chops. I called the doc and said, 'This is it? I'm ready. I thought this was supposed to hurt.'"
Burish didn't ease back into action. He assisted on a Hawks goal to make it 1-0 early in the first period. And at 17:06 of the opening stanza, he dropped the gloves with the Kings' Richard Clune, drawing a five-minute fighting major.
Burish is a human energy ball, both on the ice and in the dressing room. He was so pumped to play in a game, he thought he might have to calm himself down.
"I'll be excited, obviously. I might have to tone it down a little bit, but I think that's what I'm looking forward to bringing to this group," Burish said before taking the ice. "Going through a season, you get to game 60 or 65, it gets a little bit stale sometimes. If that's happened here, I hope I can come back [like] 'Here comes the crazy guy, here comes the guy that never shuts up and never slows down.' Hopefully that kind of excitement can be a positive thing for this group."
"He's going to flying out there and playing the game fast and hard," said Patrick Sharp, who rooms with Burish on the road and was the recipient of his first-period assist on Wednesday. "He's well liked in our room, so he's going to be a big help to our team."
His mouth is part of his game as well. He tries get inside the head of opponents while keeping his own teammates motivated.
"It's an important thing, I think. On the bench, staying into it and staying alive out there," Burish explained. "Some of the guys have said that sometimes the bench has gotten a little quiet or on the ice a little bit. So I look forward to that. But ask them again in three games. They'll probably be sick of hearing me."
Zito said it was a long five months for the impending free agent. At one point, when the team was on a road trip, Burish thought of joining his agent in some early morning 'rat hockey.'
"I thought about playing in the old man's league at six in the morning, but then I stopped myself," Burish said. "I didn't want to do anything stupid."
Make no mistake, though, Burish isn't all about mouthing off and hitting people. He has some skills, which began to emerge last season. Joel Quenneville hopes Burish can ignite the fourth line.
"You can always use that type of flavor in your lineup," Quenneville said. "His speed is the one ingredient that really jumps out and is useful in today's game. I think he can add pace to that line and really make a difference."
Still, Burish is known for energy, grit and big checks.
"I wouldn't want to be the first guy he hits," Sharp said. "He's been saving that up for like 60 games."
Jesse Rogers covers the Blackhawks for ESPNChicago.com.Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin was ejected from Sunday's game against the Chicago Blackhawks after receiving a game misconduct penalty for boarding.
With 7:44 remaining in the first period and the Capitals trailing 1-0, Ovechkin checked Blackhawks defenseman Brian Campbell into the boards behind Chicago's goal, moments after Campbell had released the puck.
Campbell went face-first into the boards and lay on the ice for several minutes before being helped to the dressing room.
Ovechkin was given a five-minute major for boarding in addition to the game misconduct. A game misconduct penalty automatically incurs a fine and further review by the commissioner's office for possible suspension.
On Dec. 1, he was suspended for two games without pay by the NHL for a knee-to-knee hit on Carolina defenseman Tim Gleason.
"The knee [suspension from Dec. 1] does not apply as he was suspended for that," NHL head disciplinarian Colin Campbell said. "If you get two boarding game-misconduct penalties, you get an automatic suspension if 41 games have not lapsed. In [Ovechkin's] case, 41 games have lapsed since his last boarding [game misconduct], so he is not suspended automatically."
The NHL will review the incident, though, and Ovechkin is still subject to supplemental discipline.
Ovechkin leads the NHL in scoring with 96 points.
ESPN.com's Pierre LeBrun contributed to this report. Jesse Rogers covers the Blackhawks for ESPNChicago.com.Prosecutors dropped a DUI charge against Chris Chelios, but a judge convicted the former Chicago Blackhawks defenseman of improper lane usage and speeding.
Chelios, who was arrested in late December in Westmont, Ill., was sentenced Wednesday to six months of conditional discharge. He also received a $500 fine.
"I want to put this behind me and learn from it," Chelios said Wednesday, according to the Chicago Tribune.
Chelios also was ordered to attend a victim impact panel within six months, the newspaper reported.
Now with the Atlanta Thrashers, the 48-year-old Chelios was assigned to the Chicago Wolves of the American Hockey League later Wednesday. He appeared in seven games with the Thrashers after being recalled from Chicago on March 10.
Chelios has played in more NHL games than any other American-born player. He won three Stanley Cups and was a three-time winner of the Norris Trophy as the league's top defenseman.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.CHICAGO -- With seven fewer teeth to protect after a puck hit him in the mouth, Chicago Blackhawks defenseman Duncan Keith has decided not wear a full face shield during the Stanley Cup finals.
Keith, who wears a half shield, also has decided not to have his replacements put in until after the finals.
"[I'll] be like this until the end of the season, and after that go in and hopefully get some nice teeth," Keith said Tuesday. "It's not out of the ordinary when a hockey player loses his teeth, but certainly I lost my fair share."
Two of the teeth knocked out were fake.
After catching Patrick Marleau's clearing attempt in the mouth Sunday, Keith missed less than seven minutes before returning to the ice. He later assisted on Dave Bolland's goal as the Hawks eliminated the San Jose Sharks from the Western Conference finals.
Game 1 of the finals against the Philadelphia Flyers is Saturday at the United Center.The Chicago Blackhawks made a blockbuster trade with the Thrashers on Wednesday, the Stanley Cup champions moving Dustin Byfuglien, Ben Eager, Brent Sopel and a prospect to Atlanta for a first-round pick, a second-round pick, forwards Marty Reasoner and Joey Crabb and prospect Jeremy Morin.
The first- and second-round picks that Chicago gets in the deal were acquired by Atlanta in the trade that sent Ilya Kovalchuk to New Jersey last February.
The prospect Atlanta is getting from Chicago is Akim Aliu.
Blackhawks general manager Stan Bowman admitted that the deal was "simply a salary cap move."
"It's exactly what we set out to accomplish," he added. "To get some draft choices. ... There were a lot of other considerations and we're satisfied where we ended up."
Rick Dudley, who in April was promoted to general manager in Atlanta, said the deal made the Thrashers
"significantly better, immediately."
"I think what we saw in the playoffs is the Dustin Byfuglien
we've seen evolving for some time now," Dudley said in a conference call early Thursday morning. "As a forward he's
probably one of the premier power forwards in the league."
The trade was delayed a while on Wednesday night because it would have moved the Thrashers above the accepted limit of 50 player contracts, a league source told ESPN.com. But Atlanta then made a "minor transaction" with San Jose, sending a seventh-round selection (188th overall) in the 2010 draft, defenseman Michael Vernace and left wing Brett Sterling to the Sharks for future considerations.
"It is what it is," Byfuglien said on "The Afternoon Saloon" on ESPN 1000. "It's part of the job. You're not going to stick in one spot the whole time so I've got to go."
After winning their first Stanley Cup since 1961, the Blackhawks were in dire need of shedding salary as new contract extensions for Jonathan Toews, Patrick Kane (five years, $31.5 million each) and Duncan Keith (13 years, $72 million) next season put them in a major salary-cap crunch.NEW YORK -- Game 7 of the Western Conference finals has set several viewership milestones.
The Los Angeles Kings' 5-4 overtime win over the Chicago Blackhawks on Sunday averaged more than 4.1 million viewers on NBCSN. That's the most for a non-Stanley Cup final NHL playoff game since at least 1994, which is as far back as Nielsen's records go.
The previous high was more than 4 million for Game 7 of the 1996 Eastern Conference finals between the Florida Panthers and Pittsburgh Penguins on ESPN, when the population was smaller.
NBC said Tuesday the game drew more viewers to its sports cable network than any Stanley Cup final matchup. NBCSN, under various names, has aired two games in the championship series since 2006.CHICAGO -- Isaiah Douglas skated with the puck up the right side of the ice, put himself in shooting position and propelled the puck past the goaltender just as the Hockey on Your Block session came to an end at Johnny's IceHouse West on a summer evening.
While others moved to the center of the rink, the 14-year-old Douglas wasn't done enjoying his goal. He practices his skating and shooting, but he also puts time into his celebrations. Douglas skated away from the net, dropped to both knees and punched the air as he skidded on the ice.
"I'm a big Patrick Kane fan," Douglas said. "I do the heartbreaker. I'll ride on one knee. I do all of his celebrations."
Douglas, who is black, could only dream of living out such hockey fantasies not too long ago. He owned a stick and in-line skates and played street hockey with friends, but he didn't have access to an ice rink and didn't own any other equipment.
Spreading hockey to every neighborhood and giving every child a chance to lace up a pair of skates, grasp a stick and strike a puck still faces some of the same challenges it did decades ago. Access to rinks and ice time are still major obstacles, and hockey equipment and the cost of playing in youth leagues are still a financial burden for most families.
There are people in Chicago trying to counter that. The efforts made in the city have been minimal in the past, and it has fallen behind other major cities where growth in youth hockey diversity has been substantial, but the push for greater change has picked up in recent years due to the Chicago Blackhawks, more diversity programs, the arrival of more high-profile minority players, and an Illinois politician and others who have taken up the cause.
Strides have been made in diversifying the game and can be seen by the increased number of minority players throughout the NHL. From 1957 -- when Willie O'Ree became the the NHL's first black player -- to 1995, a total of 27 black players played in the league. Since then, almost 50 black players have played in the NHL. Last season alone, 43 minority players, including 22 black players, secured NHL roster spots.
"I think when I started I obviously looked up to guys like Grant Fuhr, that I was fortunate to play with," said former Blackhawk Jamal Mayers, who played 15 seasons in the NHL from 1996 to 2013 and is now an NHL Network analyst. "Tony McKegney had a long career. But there were very few examples of people of color, diversity, guys you could tell were not mainstream playing the game."
A total of 60 minority players had made it to the NHL when Mayers began his career in 1996. That number grew to 142 by 2013. Minority players made up nearly 5 percent of the NHL last season, when there were 42 minority players in the league and another 27 minority prospects in teams' systems.
At the grassroots level, hockey is being introduced to more kids from all socio-economic backgrounds.
"The game has caught on in a lot of different areas and different markets," said former NHL player Eddie Olczyk, who is the Blackhawks television color analyst and is involved with youth hockey. "I know from our camps we've had people from all different walks of life. We had kids come from the Cayman Islands that were at the camp, kids from Europe, kids from the inner city. We've had all young people come through, boys and girls.
"That's great to see. It's about opportunity and being exposed to it. They're all hockey players. That's the great thing. Regardless of where they're coming from, smaller areas in the city or the suburbs or from the Cayman Islands, they're all hockey players."
It's certainly different than when Vince Carter, who is black, was growing up on Chicago's South Side in the 1960s and '70s. Carter played outdoor hockey when he and his friends flooded tarps during the winter, but his hockey opportunities never reached beyond that. Aside from not having access to a local ice rink, Carter faced another issue, that most people simply didn't think he liked hockey because of the color of his skin.
"Nobody ever asked us," said Carter, who coaches varsity boys basketball at Von Steuben High School in the Chicago Public League and is a retired teacher. "People just assumed black people didn't like hockey. I'm not trying to knock anybody. That's the way it was."
That's no longer the case in many places. In cities like New York, Philadelphia and Washington, programs have grown to the point where they're able to assemble youth teams comprised solely of minority players.
Hockey is alive in many communities where it hasn't been in the past, and Chicago is looking to follow that trend.
"I had read some stuff that Arthur Ashe had said, and I'm paraphrasing, it was along the lines of he heard tennis was called a country club sport," said Mike Quigley, a congressman representing Illinois' 5th District, which includes part of Chicago. "His point was that shouldn't be the case; it should be for everybody. So hockey should be for everybody.
"The NHL says hockey is for everybody. Well, if it is, then we have to deal with the access issues. And there are particular hurdles with hockey, golf and tennis and so forth. I think every kid should be able to try the sport they like. That just takes extra work because most kids do what they have in front of them. All you need with basketball is sneakers. You can borrow a ball and just join in a game, there's a court. Hockey requires ice time, which is expensive, and very expensive equipment and very expensive training to go along with that. The NHL says hockey is for everybody, so then let's prove it."
Imagine you're loading a shopping cart for a hockey player. Toss in the skates. Grab a helmet and mouthpiece. You need a stick and gloves. There are the shoulder and elbow pads, protective cup and shin guards to purchase. Don't forget the socks and pants. A bag to put everything in would be helpful as well.
Even for low-end used equipment, the cost is at least a few hundred dollars. For quality and new equipment, the price can escalate into the thousands.
"It's still an expensive sport," said William Douglas, a journalist who publishes Color of Hockey (and no relation to Isaiah), a blog devoted to minority hockey players. "It can cost anyone from a couple hundred bucks to thousands of bucks. I know when I'm playing, and I'm playing old men's beer hockey, I'm wearing $3,000 [worth of equipment]. The expense is a great hurdle.
"Hockey has to do something about the expenses -- the cost of the equipment, the cost of joining teams. I don't have an answer for it. That's what needs to be fixed."
Equipment is just the first cost. The next part is finding instruction and getting into a house league. None of it is exactly cheap.
McFetridge Sports Center, which holds the Chicago Park District's lone indoor ice rink, offers a youth hockey league; it costs an individual $700 to $875 to join. That's a deal too, according to McFetridge hockey coordinator Brad Czachor.
"I think we're more of an interesting dynamic than some of the travel teams or the teams that play at Johnny's IceHouse or in the suburbs," Czachor said. "Hockey is an expensive sport, just the cost of the programs, the equipment. Our fees are minimal compared to what they could be elsewhere."
McFetridge isn't having trouble filling those spots either. Czachor said he'll have 200-plus kids on teams this year and had to go to a wait list for the first time in nine years.
"Again, it comes down to the bottom line, to cost, exposing it to them and then giving the opportunity," Olczyk said. "I know a lot of families who would want their kids involved in hockey from all ranges of financial income. They look at the cost -- $1,200 to play hockey or $150 to play lacrosse. We need more cooperation from local rinks in ice time. Instead of gouging a lot of different customers, there needs to be something to give kids an opportunity to get out there."
FINDING ICE
Public basketball courts are easy to find in Chicago. Most parks still have at least one baseball diamond. Even finding a tennis court in the city wouldn't take much time.
Locating a hockey rink, that's a different story.
The Chicago Park District owns eight ice rinks, but just one of them is indoors and open year-round, the McFetridge Sports Center on Chicago's North Side. Even there, the ice time is hard to come by because there's just one sheet of ice and it has to be divided among youth and adult hockey leagues, figure and synchronized skating and instructional classes.
Illinois congressman Mike Quigley, a hockey player himself, is one of those leading the push to diversify the sport in Chicago. Courtesy Mark Matza
The Chicago Park District is building another indoor rink, on Chicago's South Side, and it is expected to open in 2015. Even with two indoor ice sheets, that's just matching what a lot of surrounding suburbs already have. For example, Fox Valley Ice Arena in Geneva, Illinois, has two large rinks.
Neither of the area's main diversity hockey programs -- Hockey on Your Block and Hockey Is for Everyone -- are run out of the Chicago Park District. Hockey on Your Block uses donated ice time from Johnny's IceHouse owner Tom Moro. The Amateur Hockey Association Illinois has Hockey Is for Everyone programs at rinks in Homewood and Crystal Lake.
Evanston Youth Hockey Association director Delayon Morris knows firsthand how difficult access and affordable ice time can be. He's always pushing for more free ice time in his complex, but there are limitations.
"I feel like doing more hockey-for-free days [would help]," said Morris, who also works with the NHL's Hockey Is for Everyone program. "We did two hockey-for-free days last year and they were a great success. I think we had about 30 or 40 kids out each time, and they were just trying hockey for free. I think the more we can do things like that and of that nature, the better it would be.
"I think we've definitely seen improvement in diversity in the game. Be it diverse girls, races, ethnic background, I think it's definitely growing. I think there's also a lot that can be done that is not being done for that same diversified game. I feel like rinks are so expensive to run and fees are so high that it's pretty difficult without grants and stuff to get those kids on the ice who might enjoy the game but can't afford to play the game."
One of Quigley's favorite stories to share about ice rinks and the opportunities they create is one he was told by a New York congressman.
"Brian Higgins from Buffalo told me when he grew up in Buffalo they had an outdoor rink," Quigley said. "It was closed much of the year, and then they put a roof over it. One of the first kids to enjoy that roof? Pat Kane. If they don't have a roof over that rink, maybe you don't have Pat Kane in Chicago. ... It's so tough. There's a lot of hurdles. But gosh, it's worth it.
"We could have missed the next Wayne Gretzky. Bobby Orr and Wayne Gretzky changed the game. Because of lack of diversity, we've missed opportunities for countless others, and probably others who would have changed the game. Jackie Robinson was a multisport star too. I look to that in the future."
INNER-CITY PUSH
Youth hockey players and coaches occupy nearly the entire sheet of ice.
About 35 kids and a couple of dozen instructors are on the ice all together at Johnny's IceHouse West in late July. The kids range from kindergartners to teenagers. There are boys and girls, black, white, Hispanic and Asian.
Some kids can barely skate and others fly around the ice. The players are divided into beginner, intermediate and advanced groups, and all are learning to play hockey at no cost.
Coaches Craig Loss and Adam Reninger lead the players through a drill during a Hockey on Your Block session. Courtesy Mark Matza
This is exactly what Quigley and Ray Lilja, a longtime hockey coach, had in mind when they began discussing ways to spread hockey in Chicago. Their program, Hockey on Your Block, is the most significant inner-city push to diversify hockey in Chicago. Through assistance from the Blackhawks, Johnny's IceHouse, donations and volunteers, the organization is able to provide players free equipment, ice time and instruction.
"I always had an interest in an inner-city program because hockey has always been a huge part of my life, and I thought it would be kind of cool to have other kids who did not had the opportunity to play this sport get a chance to try it," said the 60-year-old Lilja, the organization's executive director and a hedge fund manager by day. "Congressman Quigley and I got together about three years ago. We decided that you know what? Let's give back to the community and start a program since Chicago is the only city in the NHL, large city in the NHL, that didn't have an inner-city kids program. We decided this would be perfect for this city. Luckily, the Blackhawks embraced us and said we'll support you guys all the way."
What Quigley and Lilja discovered when they first opened the doors for the program was that they didn't have to go searching for diversity.
"We didn't have to say let's make sure we get a certain percentage of Hispanics or blacks," Lilja said. "This is just what happens when you put it out there. We got everything here -- Middle Eastern kids, Japanese, Chinese, the whole gambit.
"What's funny is they get on the ice, they put their helmets on, they put their jerseys on and their equipment and you can't really tell much what nationality they are anyway. That's the good thing about it. You know what, we're out here, we're hockey players. That's what we have in common. The diversity is just what happens naturally."
Mike Douglas was among the family members watching from the stands at a recent Hockey on Your Block session. His 14-year-old grandson, Isaiah, skated among the advanced players.
"This guy, he just loves it," Douglas said of his grandson. "I think he eats, sleeps and drinks that stuff. He's talking so much about trying to become a pro when he gets older and everything else. He loves it.
"I think it's a great thing to see minorities in the skating rink doing hockey practice and doing hockey, especially little kids. The adults, that's fine. At least it's getting to the kids now where they can spread it out and talk to other kids, other minorities about it. Let people know how fun it is, entertaining and everything else. I think it's a positive thing, very positive."
In the past, Hockey on Your Block was limited to only summer sessions due to ice time constraints. That will now change; Moro announced Hockey on Your Block will have year-round access to a new studio rink that was recently added to Johnny's IceHouse West.
"Hockey is kind of a rich sport," Moro said. "It's an expensive sport. Because of that, it really is difficult for certain economic-situation kids to be able to even try the game. Our studio rink will really belong to Hockey on Your Block. We're on the West Side of Chicago. We really want to give the opportunity for kids who live around us and different parts an opportunity to try the game. That's the main motivation. From our standpoint, it's a no-brainer to get kids involved and exposed to the game we love."
THE SUBURBAN PUSH
Brit Volini has had families begin lining up as early as 3 a.m. outside Homewood-Flossmoor Ice Arena to ensure themselves a spot in the Hockey is for Everyone program.
The program, which is sponsored by the Amateur Hockey Association Illinois, the NHL and the Blackhawks, provides equipment and a free weekly hockey clinic at Homewood-Flossmoor Ice Arena in Homewood, Ill. and Crystal Ice House in Crystal Lake, Ill. The program, which has been around for about 15 years, is the longest running in Illinois.
"We don't discriminate, period," said Volini, who is chairman for Amateur Hockey Association Illinois' Hockey Is for Everyone. "We don't care where you're from. We don't care who you are. We take first-come, first-served. We open the doors at 6 a.m. and take the first 80-100 kids. We have people lining up at 3 a.m."
The program is designed as a starting point for newcomers. The program's goal is to introduce new players to the sport, get them hooked and move them on to youth leagues. Volini said the program attracts kids from the suburbs and Chicago and from various races, and has had close to 1,000 participants over the past five years.
The NHL began its Hockey Is for Everyone program 15 years ago and now sponsors 37 programs throughout the United States. NHL vice president of community affairs and diversity programs Ken Martin said many of the nationwide programs also have an education component, and it's something he hopes to grow within Chicago. The NHL's objective is for more cities to duplicate what the Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation has done in Philadelphia.
THE PROGRAM TO FOLLOW
Money enables the opportunity to play hockey.
Facilities require money. Ice time requires money. Equipment requires money.
Flyers owner Ed Snider and his foundation have provided the money in Philadelphia.
NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman, right, talks with Flyers owner Ed Snider before the ribbon-cutting for the refurbished Laura Sims Skate House in 2011. Snider matches every dollar donated to his youth hockey foundation. AP Photo/Alex Brandon
"You're not going to build an organization like ours unless you have a committed owner and board where they put their money where their mouth is," Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation president Scott Tharp said.
The Ed Snider Youth Foundation laid down $14 million to renovate ice rinks in Philadelphia. It spends $3 million annually in operating costs. It will pay $100 million to the city of Philadelphia over the course of 30 years to license public rinks. Snider also matches every dollar donated to the foundation with $2 of his own.
"In many ways, [Snider] feels this program is what he would like to be his true legacy, providing opportunities for children who otherwise would never be able to participate in an otherwise nontraditional inner-city sport like hockey," Tharp said.
That legacy started in 2005 with a simple beginners program run in conjunction with 15 city schools and three public rinks. Soon after, it boomed thanks to money and a unique opportunity.
The foundation found an answer to its issue with facilities and ice time when an opportunity presented itself to take over five struggling city-owned outdoor rinks. The foundation enclosed four of the rinks and is planning to enclose another in the future.
Soon the foundation was able to provide free facilities, ice time and equipment to kids year-round.
"When you think of inner-city athletes and you think of the sports they would gravitate to, you would immediately think of basketball," said Tharp, who has been with the foundation since 2007 and was previously executive director of Arthur Ashe Youth Tennis and Education. "When we held our town hall meetings and asked parents who lived in the neighborhoods where these rinks were, would they consider hockey, the answer was a resounding yes. That's where the drug deals were happening. They were unsupervised. It was easy to sell the structure.
"There's something about ice hockey and ice-skating. The first time you see the glimmering of the ice, it's something so new and so different and appealing to the kids. Most of them are hooked right away."
The foundation now offers everything from beginners programs to AA teams, with more than 3,000 participants ranging from kindergartners to high school students. About 70 percent of the participants are minorities.
The foundation also has an educational component, which includes classrooms and computer labs at the rinks and requires students to have a C average in their school courses to have ice privileges. Tharp said 98 percent of the kids in the foundation have advanced from one grade to the next in the last five years.
The Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation is one of a number of successful inner-city programs around the country. The Fort Dupont Ice Hockey Club in Washington and the Ice Hockey in Harlem program in New York are two of the most recognized programs and have been established for 25-plus years.
The Blackhawks have taken note of a number of these programs.
"We are always looking at programs like the Snider youth foundation and Hockey in Harlem for best practices and successes that might translate to our region and are very excited about the work we are doing with Hockey on Your Block that closely resembles where those programs were in their infancy," Blackhawks youth hockey director Annie Camins wrote in an email.
ROCKY TAKES ACTION
Quigley will never forget the look on Blackhawks chairman Rocky Wirtz's face when Quigley explained Chicago's struggles to diversify hockey.
"When Rocky took over, he and [Blackhawks president and CEO] John McDonough literally sat down with me and we had breakfast," Quigley said. "I told Rocky all the woes with kids to have access. You could see the steam coming out of his head. You could tell he understood what it meant to grow the game."
"If there was a Nobel Prize for hockey, Rocky [Wirtz] should have one," says Illinois congressman Mike Quigley. AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh
Wirtz's reaction was followed by action.
"If there was a Nobel Prize for hockey, Rocky should have one," Quigley said. "I don't say that lightly. I'm so grateful."
In 2009 the Blackhawks created StreetHawks, a floor hockey program with equipment and instruction to Chicago Public Schools provided by the team. The program is expected to be in 30 schools during the 2014-15 school year.
"We developed our StreetHawks program in 2009-10 in partnership with Chicago Public Schools to grow the game among inner-city youth who may not otherwise have the opportunity to try hockey," Camins said. "The program brings hockey to schools, community centers and other places where kids can play in safe, structured environments. To make the game more accessible, the Blackhawks provide equipment, tips on how to grow the program and instruction from our youth hockey coaches."
The Blackhawks established the MinorHawks in 2010. The program allows players affordable rental equipment and beginning skating lessons at rinks around Illinois. The program has served 5,000 players and is in 29 rinks.
The Blackhawks also work with the Chicago Park District to conduct free clinics at outdoor rinks throughout the city during the winter. The Blackhawks estimate they've held 10-12 clinic per year and have had about 1,000 to 1,200 youths participate.
The Blackhawks also sponsor the Amateur Hockey Association Illinois' Hockey Is for Everyone and Hockey on Your Block and distribute grants for individuals and organizations in need through the Eddie Olczyk Award, which has given out around $55,000.
"The youth hockey initiatives are a very important part of the Blackhawks organization," Camins said. "We recognize the need for grassroots initiatives involving this great sport, and we strongly believe our programs such as Hockey on Your Block, MinorHawks and StreetHawks, as well as Chicago Park District Outdoor Rink sponsorship, will not only help us continue to grow the game, but also expand it into areas that may not have been exposed to it in the past. Our strong partnerships with Amateur Hockey Association of Illinois, the NHL and USA Hockey are a huge reason the initiatives are seeing signs of success."
The Blackhawks haven't succeeded yet in diversifying Chicago's youth hockey as much as other major cities have, but they have made a dent in the past seven years.
"The franchise has made leaps and bounds in the wake of old man Wirtz's death," William Douglas said, referring to former team chairman William Wirtz, who died in 2007. "They're still trying to catch up in a lot of regards. It's not for the lack of effort by the Blackhawks."
IMPACT OF SUCCESS
Eleven-year-old Tyrese Hall has more than one favorite hockey player.
"I like Jonathan Toews, Patrick Kane, Marian Hossa," Hall said. "I like Patrick Sharp and that's it."Artemi Panarin has agreed to terms with the Chicago Blackhawks on a two-year entry-level contract, according to a source.
Panarin, 23, has spent the last seven years playing professionally in his native Russia.
Panarin, a right-handed, 5-foot-11, 170-pound forward, finished the regular season tied for fourth in the KHL with 62 points, which included 26 goals and 36 assists in 54 games. He tied for third in the playoffs with 20 points in 20 games and helped SKA St. Petersburg to the KHL title.
Panarin got looks from more than half the league and received strong interest from six teams, according to the source.CHICAGO -- Duncan Keith rarely tired and never wavered during one of the most dominant postseason performances in NHL history.
And with a masterful finale for the Chicago Blackhawks, the defenseman etched his name on two trophies.
Keith capped his indefatigable two-month surge with the winning goal in Chicago's Stanley Cup-clinching 2-0 victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning in Game 6 on Monday night.
The 31-year-old was the unanimous choice to win his first Conn Smythe Trophy as the playoff MVP, adding it to a trophy case that includes three NHL championship rings, two Norris Trophies and two Olympic gold medals.
"It's a lot of feelings of happiness, obviously," Keith said. "But there's some relief we got the job done. We can take a breath now."
With his third Stanley Cup title in six years finally secure, Keith can get some rest.
And in modern hockey history, hardly anybody has deserved a break more.
Keith played 715 total minutes in the postseason, becoming just the fourth defenseman to top 700 playoff minutes since the league began tracking the statistic in 2001. He played well over 500 minutes of five-on-five hockey, crossing that mark in just 21 games.
According to ESPN Stats & Information, Keith is the second defenseman in history to win the Conn Smythe and score the winning goal in the Cup-clinching game. Bobby Orr did it for the Boston Bruins in 1970 and 1972.
Trophy Haul For Keith Chicago's Duncan Keith is just the seventh player -- and only the second defenseman -- to win the Conn Smythe Trophy and score the winning goal in a Cup-clinching game: Year* Player Team 2015 Duncan Keith Blackhawks 2008 Henrik Zetterberg Red Wings 1988 Wayne Gretzky Oilers 1982 Mike Bossy Islanders 1973 Yvan Cournoyer Canadiens 1972 Bobby Orr Bruins 1970 Bobby Orr Bruins 1965 Jean Beliveau Canadiens *Conn Smythe Trophy first awarded in 1965 to playoff MVP
Keith logged an astonishing 31 minutes per game in the Blackhawks' 23 playoff contests. He has played in every situation alongside just about every other Chicago defenseman, ceaselessly providing top-level defense along with three goals and 18 assists. He also became just the 11th defenseman in NHL history to score at least 21 points.
"I don't think I've seen anyone play any better," goalie Corey Crawford said. "Whenever we needed a big goal or a big play, it seemed like he made it."
Keith roared right through the clincher, playing 30:19 in Game 6 and putting six shots on Tampa Bay's net -- none bigger than his goal.
Late in the second period of an impossibly tense scoreless game, Keith accepted a pass from Patrick Kane and winged a shot at Ben Bishop, who left a juicy rebound. Keith followed the puck around Cedric Paquette and beat Bishop on the short side, providing a cathartic release for the fans packed into the United Center.
"It's been really special," Keith said. "You play with the same guys for a long time and you develop a bond, and then when you can win a championship, it just reinforces that. To be able to do it three times, we're all proud of it. We all talked about what it would be like, and we're just super proud to be part of a group like this."
Duncan Keith logged the most minutes on his team in these playoffs, becoming just the fourth skater since 1998 to play more than 700 minutes in one postseason. Bruce Bennett/Getty Images
While his workload isn't unprecedented -- Los Angeles' Drew Doughty, Keith's former Olympic defensive partner, logged similar minutes last season -- Keith's uniformly excellent play made him the symbol of Chicago's pursuit of the Stanley Cup.
Keith's extra work was borne out of necessity, at least according to coach Joel Quenneville. After Michal Rozsival was hurt in the second round, Quenneville showed little faith in David Rundblad, Kyle Cumiskey or Kimmo Timonen, the three defensemen who took turns as Chicago's third pairing over the past two months.
Instead, the Blackhawks relied inordinately on three-time Cup winners Brent Seabrook and Niklas Hjalmarsson, two-time champion Johnny Oduya and Keith, who shouldered the biggest load of all.
"It's about time," said captain Jonathan Toews, the 2010 Conn Smythe winner. "We all know he's going to go down as one of the great players to play the game. In our room, we knew that before the playoffs, but he keeps proving it time and time again."
Keith started the Blackhawks' playoff run with a double-overtime goal to win their first-round opener against Nashville. His heavy workload peaked in the grueling Western Conference finals against the Anaheim Ducks.
Although he took a physical pounding from Anaheim's bad-tempered forwards, he shrugged off every combined hit and check to keep the Blackhawks moving forward.
Keith has won more championship hardware than just about any player of his generation. He has Olympic gold medals from the Canadian teams in Vancouver and Sochi, and he won the Norris in 2010 and again last season as the NHL's top defenseman.
And now Keith is the first defenseman to win the Conn Smythe since Anaheim's Scott Niedermayer in 2007, and just the fourth since 1994.
While celebrating with his teammates on the ice, Keith paused for a photo with his 2-year-old son, Colton, standing uncertainly next to the Conn Smythe Trophy.
"You don't get these awards without being on great teams with great players," Keith said. "I'm just proud to be a part of this group of guys who care so much and do whatever it takes."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.The Chicago Blackhawks acquired center Brendan Morrison from the Calgary Flames for defenseman Brian Connelly the team announced Friday evening.
Morrison, 36, is a 15-year veteran who recently reached the 200-goal and 600-point plateaus for his career.
"I'm ecstatic," Morrison said in a conference call with reporters. "I'm thrilled. This is a tremendous opportunity to come to a team that I feel has as good a chance as anybody to compete for the Stanley Cup."
Morrison has four goals and seven assists in 28 games played this year. He spent time on injured reserve due to a left knee problem associated with his offseason surgery to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament.
"I came back a tad early at the beginning of the year," Morrison said. "It felt fine and stable..I needed a little bit more time to work on some explosiveness. I know it's fine. There are no issues at all. Skating is getting back to where it's always been."
Morrison originally injured the knee in a game against the Hawks in early March of last year. Defenseman Niklas Hjalmarsson checked Morrison into the end boards and he was slow to get up. As he made his way to the Flames bench he and some Hawks on their bench had words but Morrison says that's all in the past.
"It's a dead issue," he said. "[I've] turned the page from that. There's no issues with that at all moving forward here. It's a done deal."
Hawks' general manager Stan Bowman said he's been talking to Calgary about Morrison for some time but the deal had to wait until the Flames got some injured bodies back in the lineup.
"It's been on our radar for a while," Bowman said. "There's a lot of attributes Brendan brings to the table which we've been looking for. He's a centerman. He's got a long pedigree of being an offensive performer. He still has a lot left to add to our group."
Bowman indicated the lack of experience for the Hawks at the center position was one reason for the deal.
"He's been a point producer in the past and I think he's also shown versatility recently to be able to play different roles on the team," Bowmans stated. "Plus he has a lot of leadership."
Bowman also said the trade had nothing to do with the hand injury to Jonathan Toews who missed the Hawks final game before the all-star break and is missing Sunday's all-star game. Bowman said Toews is "on target to play Tuesday" when the Hawks re-start their schedule in Vancouver against the Canucks.
Morrison played for Vancouver from 1999 to 2008 and is excited for a chance to play against the Canucks in his first game as a Blackhawk. He was asked if he was aware of the rivalry the two teams have with each other. They've competed in three consecutive postseason series.
"Very aware of it," Morrison said. "I don't think you could ask for a better first game really. It's going to be a playoff style game."
Bowman said he's not necessarily done looking for a forward. He's already on record saying he would like to add to his defense as well.
"We're still a month away from deadline so I'm not going to make any statements that we're done at anything," Bowman said.
Connelly, 25, has been with the Hawks organization since 2009 amassing 126 points in 211 games for Rockford of the AHL.
Jesse Rogers covers the Blackhawks for ESPNChicago.com.CHICAGO -- Former Blackhawks director of player personnel Norm Maciver has been promoted to assistant general manager, the team announced Monday.
"Norm has proven to be a valuable asset to our hockey operations over the past five years, so we are excited to be able to elevate him to this role," Blackhawks general manager Stan Bowman said in a statement. "He has an excellent handle on the players within our organization, from recent draft picks to veterans, and a great eye for talent evaluating.
"Promoting within our organization is something we take great pride in and we are very confident in what he will contribute on a daily basis as we strive to hire the best possible candidate at every position."
Maciver just completed his fifth season with the Blackhawks, his first as director of player personnel after previously serving as the club's director of player development. He replaces Marc Bergevin, who left to become the general manager of the Montreal Canadiens.
Maciver is a veteran of 500 regular-season games as an NHL defenseman.CHICAGO -- Blackhawks forward Marian Hossa practiced Thursday after taking a forearm to the back of the head from the Vancouver Canucks' Jannik Hansen, and coach Joel Quenneville said Hossa could play Friday against the San Jose Sharks.
"I thought he felt much better today," Quenneville said. "He said he felt good after practice as well. We'll see how he is [Friday] and with a chance of playing [Friday] night."
Hansen's forearm connected with the back of Hossa's head while the two players were advancing for a loose puck in the air with 18:55 remaining in the third period of Tuesday's game. Hossa lay face-first on the ice for a few minutes while being attended to by the Blackhawks medical staff. He eventually left the ice under his own power.
"Obviously he surprised with a hit from behind," Hossa said Thursday. "He hit me pretty hard in the back of the head. Right after, I was shaky. That's basically why I didn't return, because I was shaky. We had the day off, and it kind of slowed down. This morning I woke up and felt much better."
Hossa said he doesn't believe he suffered a concussion on the hit.
"No, I don't believe [I had a concussion] because more than anything he surprised me with a punch from behind," Hossa said. "I was shaky for a few minutes right after that, which is why I didn't return to the game."
Hansen met with the NHL on Wednesday and was given a one-game suspension for the hit.
"It's up to the league," Hossa said of the suspension. "They're making the decisions. But I'm glad at least one game.
Hopefully, more guys learn from it. He said he was reaching for the puck. I didn't buy it, because when you're reaching for the puck you don't hit somebody that hard to the head."
The Blackhawks did not practice Wednesday, but Hossa was evaluated by the team.
"It was a very encouraging that he felt good [Wednesday], and he responded feeling good during practice and afterwards, which is a big test for us and him," Quenneville said. "That's definitely very good news."
Hossa suffered a head injury last season when Phoenix Coyotes forward Raffi Torres launched himself into Hossa during Game 3 of a first-round playoff series. Hossa had to be taken off the ice on a stretcher. He missed the Blackhawks' final three games of the season and was cleared to play again in early December.
"We were all concerned," Quenneville said of Hossa's latest collision. "We all saw the situation in the playoffs and you see it again. These things do have a history, so it was definitely a concern."
Blackhawks goaltender Corey Crawford and defenseman Brent Seabrook returned to practice Thursday, but goaltender Ray Emery did not participate because of a family commitment. Seabrook will play Friday, and Emery will make his fourth straight start in place of Crawford.
Crawford has missed the Blackhawks' past three games with an upper-body injury. He is 7-0-3 with a 1.65 goals-against average and a .935 save percentage this season.
Seabrook missed Tuesday's game against the Canucks because of a lower-body injury. He briefly left Sunday's game with the Los Angeles Kings after being hit in the groin area by a slap shot.The Chicago Blackhawks signed Nikolai Khabibulin to a one-year contract to join the team as a backup goaltender, the team announced Friday.
The 40-year-old Khabibulin was an unrestricted free agent after playing the last four seasons with the Edmonton Oilers. He was 4-6-1 with 2.54 goals-against average and a .923 save percentage in 12 games last season. He played with the Blackhawks from 2003-09.
"It was pretty apparent when we looked at the list of players of goalies that were available (that) Nik was the best candidate for that position," Blackhawks general manager Stan Bowman said. "We were really thrilled to add him to our team I think for a number of reasons. No. 1, I think he is able to be the tandem with Corey (Crawford) that we experienced the last couple years and that worked so well."
Crawford and Ray Emery shared starting goaltender duties for the Blackhawks throughout the regular season last season. Crawford started all of the playoff games.
"Nik's a guy, a goaltender who has had an accomplished career, and he has a lot of game left in him, and he doesn't want to be a guy that just plays a few games," Bowman said. "He's a competitive guy. He wants the chance to help our team try to come back with a strong season. For that reason, it was very appealing for both sides."
Emery became an unrestricted free agent on Friday and signed a one-year deal with the Philadelphia Flyers.
"We spoke to Ray quite a bit down the stretch here," Bowman said. "It became apparent talking to his agent he was looking for a different opportunity, I think. I can't speak for him, but it sounded like he wanted to go somewhere where he had a chance to be the No. 1 guy or maybe a different opportunity. He experienced the last two years, and I think he enjoyed it, but I think he was looking for something different for himself."
The Blackhawks signed 24-year-old Finnish goaltender Antti Raanta to a one-year contract in June. Bowman recently said he was unsure if Raanta would be ready for the NHL next season due to the transition from European hockey.NHL Central Scouting released its final rankings prior to the 2016 NHL Draft Tuesday morning.
While the final list is not the end-all, be-all of players will hear their names called in June’s NHL Draft at the First Niagara Center in Buffalo, N.Y., it is a fairly solid indicator.
NHL Central Scouting breaks prospective draft picks into four different categories: North American skaters and goaltenders and European skaters and goaltenders. Players born between Jan. 1, 1996 and Sept. 15, 1998 are eligible to be selected.
Topping the European list at No. 1 is Auston Matthews, an American playing for Zurich in the Swiss Elite League, who will almost certainly be selected first overall.
A review of the American list shows a significant presence of players with New England connections, including Boston University freshman Charlie McAvoy (6) and UConn freshman Tage Thompson (20), who are slated to go in the first round. However, the top rated local player is former Malden Catholic star Matt Filipe.
Cedar Rapids Connection
Filipe, a Lynnfield, Mass., native, is ranked 51st. Currently skating for the Cedar Rapids RoughRiders in the United States Hockey League (USHL), Filipe is a power forward who plays the game with an edge.
“He’s learning to be more physical on a more consistent basis. He definitely has the toughness. He doesn’t have to fight, but he’s shown he can,” said longtime Cedar Rapids coach Mark Carlson.
In his first season in North America’s top Junior ‘A’ league, Filipe is third on the team with 19 goals.
“Matt has come a long, long way since the beginning of year. It was a big step up coming from high school. His biggest improvement is he’s learned to play fast and use his speed to his advantage,” Carlson said.
One of the feel-good stories to come out of today’s release was the inclusion of Filipe’s Cedar Rapids teammate Ross Colton, who is in his third season of draft eligibility as a 1996-born prospect. The New Jersey native and Vermont commit played prep hockey at Taft School (Conn.) before going to the USHL.
“It’s been great to see Ross accomplish what he has. You have a player who was really dedicated to his game. Ross had a nice first year for us, but he came back in great shape. Wire-to-wire, he’s been terrific,” said Carlson of his team’s leading scorer, who went from unranked in the Midterm to 86th in the Final Rankings.
A third player on Cedar Rapids’ roster with New England ties is Matt Gosiewski, a Wilton, Conn., native committed to Harvard. The former Millbrook School (N.Y.) prep star is rated 196th.
“He was really coming on [before his injury]. He has real good hockey sense and vision with great size. He has tremendous tools,” Carlson said.
Eagles Soar High
A current Boston College defenseman as well as a future one, both with local ties, made the final rankings.
Freshman Casey Fitzgerald, the former Malden Catholic standout, had a solid rookie campaign and was ranked 156th. He assisted on both game-winning goals for the Eagles in the NCAA Northeast Regional.
"He's a dynamic skater. He's a very intelligent player, hockey-wise. His competitive level is off the charts," said BC coach Jerry York, prior to last week’s Frozen Four.
BC recruit and former Hingham and Dexter star Luke McInnis, now with the USHL’s Youngstown Phantoms, was rated 141st. He had a few memorable moments in front of NHL scouts, including a game-winning goal in September’s CCM USA Hockey All-American Prospects Game.
Cardinals Place Four
Selects Academy at South Kent (Conn.) placed several current and former players on the final rankings. Leading the way is Notre Dame commit and Green Bay Gamblers (USHL) defenseman Andrew Peeke.
Providence recruit and Waterloo Black Hawks (USHL) defenseman Jake Ryczek (114) is another smooth-skating blue liner from South Kent. Another Providence commit, senior left wing Greg Printz, also made the list at 160.
Another alum, Quinnipiac freshman Chase Priskie, climbed 57 spots to 127 following a terrific rookie season that concluded with a loss in last Saturday’s national championship game to North Dakota.
"Chase had a great year. He's been dominant. The way he plays is how we want all our 'D' to play. We want to get our 'D' in the rush. We want to create that second wave, that third wave of attack,” said Bobcats coach Rand Pecknold.
A 'Swede' Day
It’s tough to describe Tuesday as anything but a good day for Gunnery (Conn.) center Gustaf Westlund. The Parisian-born Swede verbally committed to play college hockey at Michigan, and saw his stock jump 28 spots from the Midterm up to 116.
In his first year in North America, Westlund was Gunnery’s top center as the school captured the Elite 8 Prep School Championship trophy this March.
“Gustaf is a dynamically talented Swedish import who has some of the best puck skills in the draft. He has a long stride, quick hands and plays the game very hard. He will be a steal if he gets past the fifth round,” said one NHL scout.
O’Neil’s Climb
A wrist injury slowed down Albany Academy (N.Y.) star Kevin O’Neil at the start of the season, but the Yale recruit was rewarded for a strong second half and a promising effort at the Beantown Spring Classic.
“He sees the ice, he can make plays and he has a deceptive speed. His first two steps are strong,” said Albany Academy coach Brett Riley.
O’Neil, who had 21 goals and 44 assists, changed his game a little this winter, partly due to the injury and also because other teams were centering their defense around him. He will play with the USHL’s Madison Capitals next season.
Between the midterm and final rankings, O'Neil jumped more than 50 spots, going from 179 to 122.
“He made a huge jump in the draft list. He finished the year really strong. Points aside, every game he was a marked man. He had teams trying to shut him down, but he made the guys around him better,” Riley explained.
Smooth as Silk
Few players in this year’s draft class can skate like Hotchkiss (Conn.) junior defenseman Marshall Rifai. The Harvard commit is ranked 123rd, but several NHL clubs think his skating ability and propensity to push the pace is a real attribute.
“His strength is definitely his skating ability. When a defenseman can break a puck out with his feet, he can take the pressure off of other players in the defensive zone. I think Marshall's skating allows his teammates to play a little bit looser, knowing he is able to recover on some mistakes,” said Hotchkiss coach Mike Traggio.
“He gives the attack a fourth forward on the rush, and he is still able to backcheck on a turnover or be the first man back on a dump in,” added the former Brown University defenseman.
Legendary Progression
For his first few years of prep hockey, Ty Amonte was a good player, but was more known for being the son of former BU and NHL star Tony Amonte, his prep coach at Thayer.
However, he took a huge step in his progression over the past 12 months. The recent Boston University commit was a major reason the Tigers won the Prep Large School Tournament this March. Amonte, who had 12 goals and 30 assists during the prep season, was rated 201st.
“Ty is a player who continues to get better with each viewing,” said one NHL scout. “He does not have any single elite attribute, but is very good across the board with his hockey sense, three-zone play, skating and skill.”
“When the games matter the most is when Ty is at his best. He is a winner. His challenge will be if he is elite enough at his size, but with the way he has been developing, I see him as a solid late round candidate,” the scout added.
Avon’s Trio
Avon Old Farms (Conn.) was consistently one of the top teams in prep hockey this winter before being upset by eventual champion Gunnery in the semifinals of the Elite Tournament.
A trio of seniors, Northeastern recruit Jamie Armstrong, Boston University commit Patrick Harper and UConn commit Adam Karashik, were a driving force.
Armstrong is the son of St. Louis Blues Director of Amateur Scouting Bill Armstrong, and is a rugged winger who plays well below the dots. The former Bishop Hendricken (R.I.) star is rated 124th.
Harper is diminutive in stature, but is a human highlight reel. He has great acceleration and hands to go with it. The future Terrier was slotted 143rd.
Karashik is a smooth defenseman who isn’t afraid to throw his body around despite his lack of size. He’s ranked 154th.
Bavaro Rising
Brooks senior winger Vito Bavaro went from unranked to 165th in the final rankings. The Florida native and Sacred Heart recruit helped guide Brooks to a prep championship as a junior.
“Vito is a dynamic athlete who grew a ton as a player over his four years at Brooks. He's one of those kids who really love the game. He's constantly working out, shooting pucks and doing things to get better,” said Brooks coach Dave Ries.
“His heavy shot and quick release make him a threat to score from all over the ice. He's gotten a lot stronger and is working at using his body more effectively in tight areas,” Ries added.
Ivy Smart
Belmont Hill defenseman Brian Matthews is rated 175th. The captain of Jeremiah McCarthy’s prep power is a smart player who is committed to Yale.
“Brian Matthews impresses you on the ice with his hockey ability, grit, and IQ. His intangibles are even more impressive,” said McCarthy.CHICAGO -- Chicago Blackhawks goaltender Ray Emery has done something no NHL goaltender has done before, but you wouldn’t know that by talking to him.
Emery is the first NHL goaltender to start off a season with 12 consecutive wins. He improved to 12-0-0 by making 16 saves and shutting out the Calgary Flames in a 2-0 victory on Tuesday.
Emery’s coach and teammates find his historic start to be remarkable, but Emery has reacted to it as if it’s an every-season occurrence. When asked about it following Tuesday’s win, he didn’t give any sign he was happy about his streak. He remained emotionless and answered as straight forward as if he was being asked his social security number.
“I just take it one start at a time,” Emery said.
Whatever works for Emery is fine by the Blackhawks. Because whether Emery had to step in to make consecutive starts when Corey Crawford was injured in February or he’s had to patiently wait his turn for a chance in net (his last start prior to Tuesday came on March 18), Emery has provided consistency every time out.
With Tuesday’s performance, Emery lowered his goals-against average to 2.09 and raised his save percentage to .920. Tuesday was also his first shutout since Feb. 1, 2010, which he had as a Philadelphia Flyer against the Flames.
If Crawford, who has a 2.02 goal-against average and .922 save percentage, wasn’t playing so well, Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville might just have a goalie controversy on hands. Instead Quenneville has had the luxury of having two of the league’s top goaltenders this season.
Unlike Emery, Quenneville gushed at the 12 consecutive wins.
“That’s a nice number, that’s a great stat,” Quenneville said. “I thought he had a great game tonight. He’s played two remarkable games against these guys. I thought he was very quick and very big in the net.”
Blackhawks defenseman Nick Leddy provided another adjective for Emery.
“He’s been awesome,” Leddy said. “You don’t really know how to describe it. Both of our goalies have been playing great. It gives us consistency.”CHICAGO -- Chicago Blackhawks rookie forward Teuvo Teravainen was bound to score sooner than later given the way he had been playing.
Each of his scoring chances over the previous three games seemed to get closer and closer to going inside the net. Teravainen finally broke through for his first NHL goal and point when he struck a loose puck in the slot past Winnipeg Jets goaltender Michael Hutchinson in Friday's third period.
"It's a nice feeling, of course, first goal," Teuvo Teravainen said. "I've been waiting for that." AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast
Teravainen and the Blackhawks hope it’s the first of many career points. Not since Jonathan Toews and Patrick Kane has a Blackhawks rookie received as much hype as the 20-year-old Teravainen has since making his NHL debut last season.
Teravainen was disappointed the Blackhawks lost in the end, but his goal is certainly a moment he won’t forget. He cut the Jets' lead to one with 7 minutes, 17 seconds remaining, and the sold-out United Center was in full celebration mode.
“It’s a nice feeling, of course, first goal,” Teravainen said. “I’ve been waiting for that. I think I had some chances last games. Right now I get it, so it’s good.”
Teravainen’s teammates could sense the goal was coming -- and he'd been close, with four shots on net Friday before he lit the lamp.
“He was around the puck a lot tonight and had a lot of good scoring chances,” Blackhawks forward Bryan Bickell said. “I knew eventually one of those pucks are going to go in. It was nice to see him score that one, get some confidence. He’s a great player. He’s got a lot of offensive ability. We need him.”
Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville has seen Teravainen progress over his five games since being called up from AHL Rockford. Quenneville said he expects another step forward after the Finn got that first goal under his belt.
“He had some chances tonight,” Quenneville said. “I think three games in a row he had some good quality stuff and he had the puck in some areas. Nice to see him get the first one there. I think he’ll be better and more comfortable in the scoring as well.”From the official NHL release:
ANDERSON, KLEFBOM AND POINT NAMED THREE STARS OF THE WEEK
NEW YORK (April 10, 2017) – Ottawa Senators goaltender Craig Anderson, Edmonton Oilers defenseman Oscar Klefbom and Tampa Bay Lightning center Brayden Point have been named the Three Stars for the week ending April 9.
FIRST STAR – CRAIG ANDERSON, G, OTTAWA SENATORS
Anderson went 3-0-1 with a 1.44 goals-against average, .943 save percentage and one shutout to guide the Senators (44-28-10, 98 points) to seven out of a possible 10 standings points and a second-place finish in the Atlantic Division. He made 29 saves in a 5-4 shootout loss to the Detroit Red Wings April 3. Anderson bounced back with his 38th career shutout, stopping all 24 shots he faced in a 2-0 triumph over the Red Wings April 4. He closed the season with two more wins, making 28 saves in a 2-1 shootout victory against the Boston Bruins April 6 and 18 stops in a 3-1 triumph over the New York Rangers April 8. The 35-year-old Park Ridge, Ill., native posted a 25-11-4 record with a 2.28 goals-against average, .926 save percentage and five shutouts in 40 outings in 2016-17.
SECOND STAR – OSCAR KLEFBOM, D, EDMONTON OILERS
Klefbom led the NHL with seven assists/points in four games to propel the Oilers (47-26-9, 103 points) to three victories and a second-place finish in the Pacific Division. He collected one helper in a 6-4 loss to the Los Angeles Kings April 4. Klefbom then registered a career-high four assists – the most by an Oilers defenseman since Dec. 31, 2005 (Chris Pronger) – in a 4-2 triumph over the San Jose Sharks April 6. He capped 2016-17 with one helper in each of his last two appearances, a 3-2 victory against the Vancouver Canucks April 8 and 5-2 win over the Canucks April 9. The 23-year-old Karlstad, Sweden, native notched career highs in goals (12), assists (26), points (38) and games played (82) this season, his fourth in the NHL.
THIRD STAR – BRAYDEN POINT, C, TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING
Point shared second place in the NHL with 4-2—6 in four games as the Lightning (42-30-10, 94 points) wrapped up their season with three victories in four starts. After being held off the scoresheet in a 4-0 loss to the Boston Bruins April 4, Point bounced back with two goals – his second career multi-goal performance – in a 4-1 triumph over the Toronto Maple Leafs April 6. He added one assist in a 4-2 win against the Montreal Canadiens April 7 before closing the season with a career-high three points (2-1—3), including the decisive goal, in a 4-2 victory over the Buffalo Sabres April 9. The 21-year-old Calgary native finished 2016-17 eighth among rookies with 18-22—40 in 68 contests.The first time a kid picks up a hockey stick, he'll probably put his strong hand on the bottom. It's a more natural motion to shoot the puck because the strong hand is generating the power.
"It's a lot easier in the beginning," says former Michigan State assistant Terry Christiansen. "There's a comfort level there."
But this moment -- when a kid figures out whether he'll be a right shot or a left shot -- is absolutely pivotal. It may not only determine how much success a kid has early on, but the effect carries through all the way into the NHL.
Pushing ambidexterity
In many hockey cultures, parents and coaches will encourage kids to use their weak hand on the bottom of the stick. Why? Because, as Christiansen says, "If a right-hand dominant guy becomes a right-hand shot, he's not going to do things with his back hand." In other words, it pushes ambidexterity, which is crucial in hockey.
Christiansen, who now runs a hockey school, has taken a special interest in the way athletes move. And he's thought a lot about handedness in hockey, including the importance of pushing kids to use their weak hand by putting it on the bottom.
But not everyone does this. In fact, a recent New York Times piece shows that the majority of American people shoot right-handed while a majority of Canadian people shoot left-handed. Both countries have a similar percentage of left-handed people, so this indicates that Canadians are correcting this natural inclination more often than Americans. And this effect passes all the way to the NHL:
Even though about 60 percent of American people shoot right, that percentage drops to 46 percent among NHL draftees. This might partially be because shooting with your weak hand gives you an advantage. But chances are, if you grow up in a place that encourages you to shoot with your weak hand, you're in a much more hockey-centric environment, which certainly helps you reach the NHL.
Another interesting finding is that international players are left shots 75 percent of the time, which is far and away the highest ratio. Christiansen thinks ambidexterity might be encouraged more in Europe. But in addition, only the elite international players are drafted in the NHL, and those guys tend to shoot with their weak hand, which also skews the numbers.
Handedness and NHL success
As a whole, about 64 percent of NHL players shoot left and 36 percent shoot right -- and both groups are creepily identical: They are 6-foot-1, 196 pounds. They are drafted, on averaged, 127th overall. And their statistical performance is nearly identical as well.
Except there's just one difference: how quickly they reach the NHL.
Left shots reach the NHL a tad bit quicker than right shots. It's not by much -- left shots make it to the league in about 2.4 years, while right shots get there in 2.6 years. But in every other category, the two sides are identical. So why is there a disparity in development time?
Well, first we have to remember that 89 percent of the world is right-handed, and the ratio is probably similar among hockey players. If that's the case, 89 percent of them should be shooting left to optimize their skill development. But that's not the case. Only 64 percent of them shoot left. This means the majority of right shots are actually right-handed. And as Christiansen pointed out, there is a disadvantage to shooting with your strong hand because you don't develop as complete of a game. So shooting the "wrong way" -- with your dominant hand on the bottom of the stick -- seems to slow development time, although it seems right-handers shooting right are talented enough to get to the NHL and be just as good as the players who shoot with their weak hand.
The biggest advantage: The off wing
In the NHL, though, we don't really notice handedness. At some point, both Christiansen and I were left stumped when trying to figure out which way Mario Lemieux shot. (Right.) But it can have a huge effect on not just who makes it to the league, but how well these players do. And the biggest advantage can be found when we look at guys who play "off wing."
Off wing means a left shot is playing on the right wing, or vice versa. And these guys are far more successful than players who play on their strong wing.
My first question to Christiansen and former NHL scout Grant Sonier was: If there is this huge advantage, why don't more players play off wing?
The basic answer: It's really hard.
Going down the ice, it's easier to handle the puck on the forehand side. Defensemen will likely be coming from the middle of the ice -- not from the boards, along which you are handling the puck. In addition, when you're puckhandling in the offensive zone, it's much easier on your strong side because the puck glides into the inside of the hockey stick's curve, not the outside. So to play the off wing, guys not only need to be ambidextrous, but they have to have great touch to handle the puck on the outside of the curve.
As Christiansen says, "They are really talented, skilled people."
But why is it better to play on the off wing? It gives you more options.
A left-shot player on the right wing can skate down the ice and, depending on the defenseman's position, he can choose to go wide toward the boards or he can cut back to the center of the ice. Now, anybody can cut back to the center -- but when you're playing your strong wing, it means you can't put a forehand shot on goal. However, on the off wing, you have that forehand shot. In addition, you're head is looking up-ice and you have the puck in the middle of the rink, which makes you a dangerous player.
"When it comes to attacking the offensive blueline," Christiansen says, "and you're trying to create offense, how can you argue not being on your weak side?"
Both Sonier and Christiansen said this was a very European phenomenon, and they're right: only about 2.5 percent of domestic skaters play on their off wing, compared to about 15 percent of international players. But players don't always stay in their lanes, so Christiansen wondered how many times players subconsciously took advantage of this situation by shifting to their off wing. While it's tougher for a winger to get to the other side of the ice, there are certainly centers who may shift to their off wing to gain an advantage; Pavel Datsyuk comes to mind.
Now, this information may not help a team draft better. But it is a basic lesson on why it's important to be an ambidextrous hockey player. More interestingly, though, Christiansen says, "I really believe that it all starts in the very beginning." And the very beginning is the moment a kid picks up a hockey stick and figures out which way to shoot the puck -- and whether an adult comes to change this very natural inclination. Because that could determine the level of success all the way up to the NHL level.NEW YORK -- Sidney Crosby's desire to ban all head shots in the NHL got a solid backing from his peers Wednesday during the NHL Player Media Tour.
If Crosby was trying to create momentum with his comments, he's got it.
"I think he's right on," former Hart Trophy winner Martin St. Louis told ESPN.com.
"I don't disagree with Sid," added new Rangers star center Brad Richards. "It's real. Until you go through it you really don't realize what's going on. The game is bigger and faster. It's the same size of ice since a long time ago.
"I am a physical player but I think if I was able to adapt and change, it shouldn't be that hard for anyone else either," Brenden Morrow said. Glenn James/NHLI/Getty Images
"It might be tough to take it out [hits to the head], but I'm a victim of it -- an elbow to the jaw. We have to be aware of it. We have to respect each other. It's our everyday life that gets affected. It's not a broken foot or a broken hand where you can go enjoy your life and get back in a few weeks. This is a real issue. There's no one answer, I know that, but definitely Sid's on the right track. Guys are so big and strong now, it doesn't take much the way the game is now to really cause damage to the head."
Richards and St. Louis are high-end skill guys like Crosby. It makes sense they'd see things the same way. But what about a power forward that makes his living crushing people?
"I know me personally my game has changed a little bit the last few years," Dallas Stars captain Brenden Morrow told ESPN.com Wednesday. "We've all in the last few years been more educated on what a concussion really is. It's not just a headache that won't go away. It's more serious than that.
"I think there is going to be a way to get head shots out. I completely agree with Sidney. He's such a big part of our league, we can't have his situation happen again. I completely support him, too. I am a physical player but I think if I was able to adapt and change, it shouldn't be that hard for anyone else either."
As it stands, the NHL returns this season with a revamped, more encompassing Rule 48 that will tackle more illegal hits to the head.
But it stops short of banning all head shots.
"Safety in the game is paramount in importance to us," NHL vice president of player safety Brendan Shanahan said Wednesday. "That's why the players have a great vehicle in the competition committee. They are part of these rules. They were part of this current rule [Rule 48]. We worked really hard on broadening the net of dangerous hits. And whether we broaden it again in the future, it's entirely within their capabilities of working with us on that. All the players that have gone through it like Sid, I've had a serious concussion myself, it's all really valuable input."
One wonders, perhaps, if Crosby shouldn't consider a role within the competition committee at some point in time in order to better push for the change he desires. Right now, his sole focus, of course, is to get healthy, so it's out of the question to add that kind of responsibility. But down the road when he's back and fully healthy, it might be just the kind of thing that a player of his stature should consider.
Either way, his voice on the matter will continue to make waves.
"Sid's incident -- you don't want to see that happen to anyone," said Bruins center Patrice Bergeron with his own journey back from a serious concussion still fresh. "Obviously, I want to see him get better, for his health first and foremost, and then seeing him on the ice will be awesome. We need him.
"But yeah, I think hits to the head are not necessary. No one wants to be the guy laying out on the ice and going through those concussion symptoms and those issues. You have to think about those consequences and be responsible on the ice. Hopefully, as players, we all think the same way. I think the league is doing some good things about it with the rules to try and avoid those kind of hits."
Devils star forward Zach Parise also backed Crosby's idea of banning all head shots, but was concerned players might fake being hit in the head to draw a penalty.
"You want to avoid that," Parise said. "But if they can [get] rid of them [head shots], the players have to be honest, too, and not exaggerate anything."
As the NHL inches closer to an all-out ban on head shots, the debate rages on about what kind of impact it would have on the physicality of the game. It's a violent sport and that's never going to change.
But can you tweak it enough to eliminate head shots?
"I know it's a fast game and there's going to be incidents, but if there are incidents, you should pay the price," St. Louis said. "I think there's a consequence for any action. We have to protect the players and I believe head shots should be out of the game."
The head shot debate rages on, and it's far from over.BOLTON, Mass. -- Boston Bruins forward Brad Marchand arrived at the organization's annual charity golf tournament Monday morning without a new contract, but he's hoping it will get done before the first official day of training camp on Friday.
Marchand
"We're working every day and hopefully something will be done before camp," Marchand said.
Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli and Marchand's agent, Wade Arnott continue to talk.
Marchand, who is a restricted free agent, provided 19 points in 25 playoff games last season, including two goals and an assist in the Cup-clinching Game 7 victory in Vancouver.
"I am a part of this team and there's no reason for me not to be," Marchand said. "I want to be here and I want to show them I'm in shape and I'm ready to go this year. I'm just waiting to see and get it done here.
"I feel very good. I feel very strong. I'm very confident coming into the year. I'm hoping to build off last year and continue moving forward."
Following the 2009-2010 season, Marchand told coach Claude Julien and Chiarelli during his exit meeting that he would score 20 goals during the 2010-2011 season. He accomplished that and more, recording 21 goals and 20 assists for 41 points in 77 regular-season games.
And, he wants a repeat performance in 2011-2012.
"That's the plan," he said. "You want to improve every year and you want to get better every year," he said. "And I'll keep my mouth shut this year. I don't want to shoot my mouth off."
Marchand plays with an edge and has the ability to aggravate opponents on the ice, and he's not about to change.
Despite not having a contract right now, Marchand's teammates don't want him to change.
"I'm sure they're going to get something done," Milan Lucic said. "It doesn't concern me at all. I know he wants to remain a Bruin and that's the main thing."
Bruins assistant captain Patrice Bergeron agreed.
"We've talked a little bit about it and hopefully it gets done," Bergeron said. "I don't get into details with him because it's none of my business, but obviously he'll be taking part in camp.
"He showed what he can do and his confidence was beyond his years in the playoffs and the way he handled himself. The way he helped our line was huge and hopefully he's on my side again this year."The NHL distributed a "collectively bargained" social media policy to all 30 teams Wednesday, which included "useful social media tips" along with game-day restrictions for hockey personnel and players.
According to a copy of the policy obtained by ESPN.com, it applies to all hockey operations personnel, including "general managers and their staff, coaching staff, training staff, etc.", as well as all players.
The blackout period for any social media was outlined as follows:
Use of social media by Hockey Operations personnel is prohibited on game day (including all Preseason, Regular Season and Playoff Games, but excluding All-Star events or other special purpose events or exhibitions) beginning at 11 a.m. on the day of the game and ending after post-game media obligations. Hockey Operations personnel may not use family members, friends, or other representatives as conduits to circumvent this rule. Use of social media by Players scheduled to play in a particular game (including all Preseason, Regular Season and Playoff Games, but excluding All-Star events or other special purpose events or exhibitions) is prohibited beginning two (2) hours prior to the opening face-off and ending upon cessation of post-game media obligations. Non-compliance with the preceding sentence may result in fines ...
Along with the blackout period, the NHL also included this in the policy:
All League/Club personnel and Players are reminded that giving, making, issuing, authorizing or endorsing any statements (including through social media) that: have or are designed to have an effect prejudicial to the welfare of the League, the game of hockey or a Member Club; or are publicly critical of officiating staff may constitute a violation of the NHL By-Laws and/or Constitution and may subject them to potential discipline.
Under the useful tips section of the policy, there is a reinforcement that all "social media communications are on the record" and all applicable parties should "take responsibility for your comments."
It also calls for all parties to "respect your audience" and "pause before posting ... If you have to pause before posting your communication, then err on the side of caution by not posting it."Two Alex Ovechkins in one town? Believe it. Sort of.
Madame Tussauds Washington D.C. unveiled its wax statue of the Capitals star Monday. The real Ovechkin's assessment: "He's a good-looking guy." Even Ovechkin's father, Mikhail, approved.
The Madame Tussauds staff took 250 measurements and photographs of Ovechkin for the statue, and has been working since July to finish the project.
"Alex Ovechkin is a tremendous athlete who has captivated hockey fans not only in the Washington D.C. area, but across the nation as well," Madame Tussauds Washington D.C. general manager Dan Rogoski said Monday in a statement. "We are honored to add a figure of Alex to our roster of sports icons and know our guests will enjoy interacting and lining up alongside him for photos in our Sports Zone."
Even better than the real thing? Check out the presentation and tell us (video courtesy of the Washington Capitals):Penguins forward Jordan Staal has been on both the giving and receiving ends of hard hits with his hockey-playing siblings plenty of times.
But rarely have the effects been as devastating as this past February, when oldest brother Eric dished out a thundering blow on Marc during a game between the Hurricanes and Rangers. The 24-year-old defenseman, 20 months Jordan's senior, has yet to play a game because of post-concussion headaches stemming from the hit.
"Obviously I feel bad for both my brothers," Jordan Staal said after the Penguins morning skate Tuesday at Nassau Coliseum. "It's not a great situation, but again, it happens in the games. Hopefully, it will be over soon enough."
The incident isn't exactly dinner-table conversation at the Staal homestead back in Thunder Bay, Ontario. It's a family that has already produced three NHL players -- youngest brother Jared, 21, plays for an AHL team in Charlotte -- and with that comes the knowledge of the risks inherent in a physical game.
"We haven't really talked about it a whole lot," Staal said. "It's unfortunate that it was Eric who ended up taking out Marc, but it's part of the game. I'm sure Marc will be back soon enough."
Staal, who first disclosed he was still battling post-workout headaches when camp opened in September, has yet to practice fully with the team.
It was a startling revelation for the team's top defenseman, who led the Rangers with 24:55 of ice time last season. He missed five games following the injury last season, but symptoms did not seem to worsen until his workouts resumed over the summer.
Staal is currently on injured reserve and has yet to resume skating, but Jordan is hopeful that he will return soon.
Jordan has witnessed the slow, steady and well-chronicled progress made by his Penguins teammate Sidney Crosby, who has been out with a concussion since last January, and has seen how difficult the road to recovery can be.
"There always is a light at the end of the tunnel. Sometime it's harder to see for most guys," Staal said. "Marc's still got a little bit of a road ahead, for sure. He's starting to feel better than he was before but it's a long road, obviously."
Regardless of the circumstances surrounding the hit, Marc has a strong support system, Staal said.
"It's not easy, but our family's going to help support him as much as we can."The Calgary Flames have been rumored as a potential suitor for Kyle Turris, but perhaps not quite clear is just how serious they are in their interest.
Well, consider the Flames very, very interested in the unsigned Phoenix Coyotes center. You can take that to the bank.
The Flames, a source told ESPN.com on Tuesday, have kept weekly tabs on the Turris situation, holding numerous discussions with both the Phoenix Coyotes and the Turris camp led by agent Kurt Overhardt.
The Flames also fully understand the message they’re currently getting from Coyotes GM Don Maloney: That Phoenix is adamant it won’t deal him while he remains unsigned.
If and when that stance changes, the Flames are determined to be in the mix. They view Turris as a potential No. 1 center, and that’s an obvious area of concern on their squad.
It should also be mentioned as a point of practicality that the Flames can’t sign Turris to an offer sheet because they currently don’t have their second-round pick for next June’s draft.
Another club that has serious interest in Turris, according to my TSN colleague Bob McKenzie, is the Ottawa Senators. McKenzie reported Tuesday night during our Insider Trading segment on TSN that the Senators have also had several discussions with the Coyotes, but like the Flames, they have been told by Phoenix that Turris won’t be dealt while he remains unsigned.
The Toronto Maple Leafs have also checked in with Phoenix on Turris, although their interest doesn’t appear to be quite as strong as their fellow Canadian clubs.
Leafs Trade Talks
The trade calls are heating up in Toronto, a source told ESPN.com Tuesday, with the New York Rangers among the clubs that have redialed the 416 area code of late.
As we reported last week, blueliner Cody Franson is available in Toronto.
Here’s the quandary, however, for the Leafs according to the same source: Do you make a deal now and risk alienating the equilibrium you’ve got in a dressing room that’s surprised everyone in the opening month? Perhaps you wait until later in the season to deal away a defenseman from that surplus you’ve got in Toronto. That’s the debate inside the Leafs’ front office.
Predators’ Big Three
Neil Sheehy, the agent for Ryan Suter, told ESPN.com on Tuesday that he’s slated to be in Nashville in two weeks’ time to resume contract talks with the Predators. Suter, of course, is slated for unrestricted free agency July 1, just like star goalie Pekka Rinne.
Preds GM David Poile told ESPN.com on Tuesday that he chatted, once again, with Rinne’s agent, Jay Grossman, on Monday.
The clock keeps ticking and the Preds have made it a priority to keep the lines of communication open with all three camps.
“I know these guys all want to sign here,’’ Poile said. “But it’s just a matter of getting it done. The better we do on the ice, I think the better chance we have of signing them.’’
Jarrett Bousquet, one of Shea Weber’s agents from Titan Sports Management, told ESPN.com that there have not been any real contract talks with the Preds since last summer’s arbitration decision. As per the CBA, Weber would not be able to sign a new deal until Jan. 1 at the earliest in any case, but that doesn’t preclude teams and agents from keeping the lines open -- and certainly Poile and Bousquet actually chatted the other day. At this point, it would appear Weber’s camp wants to let things marinate a little after last summer’s drama.
From this vantage point, it looks like Weber -- a restricted free agent July 1 -- wants to see what unfolds with Rinne and Suter before he makes his move.
If one of those two blueliners becomes available, there won’t be a shortage of teams willing to move in on him, but keep a close eye on the Detroit Red Wings, especially if Nick Lidstrom retires. The Wings have the most cap room they’ve ever had entering the offseason, more than $23 million if Lidstrom retires and still north of $17 million if he comes back at around the same salary. If Suter or Weber is available, you can bet the Wings will try to be in on it.No fans deserve more to rant than the loyal souls in Columbus. And we start there this week with a couple of beleaguered Blue Jacket fans.
osufanatic64: Ok, I'm going to try to be as calm about this as possible...you know what never mind. WHAT IS SCOTT HOWSON THINKING?!?!?! First of all, why Steve Mason still is in net for the Jackets is baffling to me. Clearly his rookie year was an anomaly. I'm not saying Mason is the ONLY reason for the Jackets horrendous start to the season...but 4 goals in 11 shots against St. Louis and then 7 goals against Philly? On top of that, our brilliant GM decided not to get any sort of backup goalie for security. At least last year we had Matty Garon to steady the ship (until he ultimately sank with the team). And last, but certainly not least, is Arneil even trying anymore? There is no reason we should still be so bad with a man advantage, not to mention how bad we are on the PK. I won't say this season is lost (yet...I still want to see Jeff Carter play more than 5 games), but this is a joke. Thanks for making an optimistic Jackets fan dread checking the score every night...
AND STEVE MASON?!?!?!?!?
artmabrey: Pierre, pretend you’re a Blue Jackets sales person trying to get me to renew my season tickets, how do you ask me to renew? I have seen some terrible play over the years, but just when I think they have hit the bottom out comes Saturdays 9-2 loss. Give me a few reasons why I should renew next year.
My take: Well, I’m not sure I’m that good a sales man. There’s ugly, and there’s the Jackets right now. I would like to see what this team can do once Jeff Carter is finally healthy. I’d also like to see what they could do with a goalie than can make some saves. Steve Mason won’t be the starting goalie next season when you renew your season tickets. That much I can tell you.
jmcleod512: What's with the Blackhawks PP? They have one of the best 5-on-5 offenses in the league. Kane and Hossa are red hot, and Toews, Sharp, Brunette, and Bolland cap off an offensively loaded team. But they have an atrocious power play which, among many other things, cost them dearly against Vancouver on Sunday. Why can't they get it together, a top-5 PP last year?
My take: It is stunning to be sure, but I think the numbers are a little deceiving as of late. I think there have been better looks on the Hawks PP lately, which usually precedes a breakthrough. I’d be shocked if this was a long-term issue.
bjmiller12: why can't the avalanche win at home. please tell me why we can't do it. we score and play great on the road but can’t do crap in our Pepsi can. are we just tired of the air or what? i am going nuts trying to figure this out. the entire avs fanbase is trying to figure this out.
My take: When teams struggle at home, I turn to this answer the most often because it’s what coaches have always passed on to me, especially for young teams: They deviate from the game plan and try to put on a show at home. What works on the road, staying within the game plan, playing a more patient game, etc. often goes out the window at home when younger teams sometimes feel the pressure to put on a show for the fans.
Can Paul Maurice and the Hurricanes turn their season around? Gregg Forwerck/NHLI/Getty Images
Heirarch: I'm a Carolina Hurricanes fan, and frankly I'm tired of a decently talented roster struggling to perform and not offering any solutions or changes that would benefit our team. Paul Maurice is a below-average coach who focuses way too much on dumping and chasing the puck instead of moving it the right way. I suggested Sheldon Souray at a discounted price last season and everyone jumped down my throat; now he's doing well. Eric Staal has been playing atrociously, and the only people who seem to show up to play hockey are Ward, Skinner and LaRose. We need to rectify our hockey team and play like we want to win, instead of playing with no heart.
LegitSportsGuy: Pierre, after being at the Stars vs. Canes game on Sunday, I am personally discouraged right now to be a Canes fan. Our G.M. has still yet to make a move after seeing us drop 3 out of 4 and give up 10 goals in 2 games while only scoring 2 goals in those 2 games. What needs to give, Pierre? Fire Paul Maurice? He consistently uses the dump and chase method and it’s not working. I heard rumors about trading offense for defense but right now we could use that offensive weapon now more than ever. Especially a winger for Eric Staal! So tell me Pierre what has to give to turn my Canes around?
My take: Well, my friend, my sources indicate your GM is trying to help your team as we speak. The Hurricanes have been chatting up the trade phone lines. I think Jim Rutherford is trying to get something done. I think Paul Maurice is OK for now, but that leash won’t last all season long if the Hurricanes continue to struggle.
CDiercksen: Pierre, what is so hard to understand about your proposed (and oft dismissed) point system? 3 for a reg. win; 2 for an OT win; 1 for an OT loss; 0 for a reg. loss.
HOW IS IT MORE CONFUSING THAN EVERYONE BEING at or around .500? I don't know who's bad anymore (except Columbus, bless their hearts)!
Now I love me some Brian Burke, but his whole "that's confusing" comment makes me want to hunt down his elementary school math teacher and staple headphones playing banjos covering Nickelback on repeat to his/her ears. Hockey is about EARNING what you get, and I don't see how this current system that rewards teams for almost winning fits into that landscape. at least with your system it's balanced.
My take: Thank you, my friend. I’ve been pushing for that point system for a long time, ever since it first came up at a GMs meeting in Henderson, Nev., in February 2004 (which I covered). It just makes so much sense. Three points for a 60-minute win would reward the better teams in this league and help the cream rise to the top as it deservedly should. That’s my opinion, and I won’t change it.
woobx: Pierre, can you please explain to me what exactly is going wrong with the Anaheim Ducks, because it seems like they have the perfect combination of veterans and young talent. Watching this 7-game road trip was so demoralizing then they put the cherry on top by not even showing up in Detroit. You can tell that frustrations are starting to set in with Selanne getting a game misconduct in Detroit. I'm starting to feel bad for the guy now because it seems like he's the only person on that team that wants to win and shows up every night.
My take: I know the Ducks are privately disappointed in Jonas Hiller this season (.902 save percentage), but to me, it runs deeper than that. Teemu Selanne is a sure-bet Hall of Famer and one of my favorite people to ever play the game. But at 41, it’s not a good sign when he’s far and away leading your team in scoring with 14 points with Correy Perry, last season’s NHL MVP, five points back for second and Ryan Getzlaf six back. Bobby Ryan has only six points, and that’s fourth in team scoring. The big boys have to wake up.
awoundedzebra: While the Lightning have shown resiliency the past couple of games by coming back from 2 and 3 down, I don’t like how they are giving the other team the lead so early in the game. How can they fix this, especially since two of their top d-men are getting hurt (Ohlund and Hedman), does Stevie Y need to look outside the organization or can they turn this around? I fear that they won’t be able to comeback for a lot of the games this season.
My take: Well as I reported earlier this season in one of my Rumblings blogs, Steve Yzerman has been working the phones in the search of help on defense. It may take a while because Yzerman wants to add a top-four type -- that’s a major transaction. But that’s his goal, whether it happens before Feb. 27 or waits until the offseason. They need help on the blue line; they give up way too many chances.
ssawas47: The Dallas Stars have been riding high and have been overlooked by many because of the loss of Brad Richards. They have shown everything you want in a championship contender with their strong physical play, outstanding goaltending, and new life on the blueline (post Zubov). Let’s not forget that the Stars have new ownership on the way. So what do the Dallas Stars have to do get some credibility in their play as of late? Would you consider the Benn-Erikkson combo being one of the most underrated top line players in the NHL? Where is the love, LeBrun??
My take: Well, my friend, I ranked them second overall in the Power Rankings on Monday. Is that not love? I remember talking to GM Joe Nieuwendyk during training camp and he told me point blank people were vastly underrated his team. It wasn’t the usual spin you get from a GM about his team. It was matter of fact. He was surprised people were overreacting so much to the loss of Brad Richards. The Stars added seven players in the offseason and have more depth than last year. They may dip a little at some point, but I think they’re playoff-bound.
CAR2687: So with the Blues making the move to release Payne from his coaching duties, and hiring Hitchcock, it seems that the organization isn't happy with the way things are going. As a fan, I'm extremely frustrated. I felt with a full season of Stewart, Perron hopeful to return by Jan 1, and the new veteran leadership that STL would make a strong push not only to the playoffs, but a sleeper in the Central. Special teams and a bad Halak have hurt that cause. Do the Blues need to make a move? Will Hitchcock light a fire under the guys, especially Halak? I love how Elliot is playing, but I don't know if I can rely on him to be this way for the full season. It's frustrating to have really good games against good teams like Van and Phi but then stink out the joint against Calgary.
My take: Know this: The whip is coming out in the form of Ken Hitchcock. The young core on this Blues team doesn’t know what’s coming at them. Hitch will be tough on them and make them accountable. If that doesn’t work, expect GM Doug Armstrong to make a trade or two. They won’t sit on their hands this season and allow the core to disappoint.So, what now for the reeling Anaheim Ducks?
Ducks general manager Bob Murray was slated to take in the Islanders-Sabres game in Buffalo on Tuesday night after spending the weekend in Syracuse, N.Y., for pro scout meetings.
The hockey world awaits his next move with his team near the basement of the standings.
Will he fire his coach or make a big trade? Either one is a possibility.
The Ducks are listening to offers for Bobby Ryan, sources confirmed to ESPN.com Tuesday. But really, "they're listening on a lot of guys. They have to at this point," another source said.
It's not that the Ducks are actually shopping Ryan, but rather the rest of the league phoning Anaheim and, more often than not, inquiring about the star winger, sensing that Anaheim might be willing to shake up their roster.
There's a difference between shopping a player and listening to offers for a player -- the Ducks are in listening mode.
One NHL source told ESPN.com that Carolina and Anaheim had a chat about Ryan, although given his $5.1 million salary, it's not likely the budget-conscious Hurricanes can pull it off. Fact is, there would be no shortage of teams interested in Ryan if the Ducks do ultimately decide to go that route.
The asking price in any Ryan deal would likely revolve around a young defenseman, a young forward and possibly a high draft pick -- in other words, a big package involving two to three pieces.
As for head coach Randy Carlyle, as late as last week, I would have told you he was as safe as safe can be despite his team's struggles. But I'm not as confident about that now. I think with the losses continuing to pile on, the Ducks have been forced to reconsider everything -- including the coaching.
Miller clears the air
Ryan Miller doesn't want out of Buffalo.
A weekend note in the Edmonton Journal by respected hockey columnist Jim Matheson caused a stir with some fans in Buffalo, with the veteran writer saying he kept hearing that Miller wouldn't mind if the Sabres traded him.
Some Sabres fans reached out to me via Twitter asking me what I knew. Well, I put the question right to Miller himself whether it was accurate that he may want a change of scenery.
"That is not true at all, and I have never made any comment concerning my status with the team," Miller told ESPN.com via text message Tuesday. "I am proud of being a Sabre for all we have accomplished, and I am excited about the new chapter Terry and Kim Pegula have inspired. I am working hard to get healthy and build my game back to where I want it so I can start to contribute to an effort to build a championship team."
Iginla's future
There's been much debate already in Calgary this season about Jarome Iginla's future. It's a delicate situation. He's arguably the most popular player in franchise history, and the owners of the team adore him.
GM Jay Feaster needs Iginla to approve any trade given the players' no-movement clause and, just as importantly, needs his owners' blessing. And that's if Feaster himself decides it's the best route of action.
If and when Iginla decides he's finally ready for a change -- and on Tuesday he told Calgary media that he hasn't changed his stance on not wanting to be traded -- you can bet the defending Stanley Cup champion Boston Bruins will be among the teams sniffing that one out. The B's won't be alone, of course, but a source confirmed to ESPN.com Tuesday that the club would have some genuine interest in bringing Iginla on board should a trade possibility ever come to pass later in the season.
Iginla has one more season left on his deal, paying him $7 million.
NBA labor deal's impact on NHL
Basketball owners were able to drive players down from 57 percent of revenues to around 50 percent in the recently agreed-upon labor deal. And you better bet NHL owners were paying attention with the league's collective bargaining agreement set to expire next Sept. 15.
My guess, based on a bit of chatter with industry sources, is that the NHL will try to reduce the players' share from the current 57 percent to below 50 percent. That's the most direct and impactful way of minimizing player costs in the next CBA. The NBA deal's limit on term for contracts will also interest NHL owners.
But it takes two to tango. The NHL Players' Association, led by executive director Donald Fehr, isn't going to roll over. After all, the players feel they gave up a lot last time around by agreeing to a salary cap, so you can expect the players will want some serious givebacks in return for lowering their share of the revenue pie -- if they agree to lower it at all.
The players' biggest bugaboo with the current system is escrow. Other items the players may focus on include the 35-and-over rule, walk-away rights for salary arbitration and the NHL disciplinarian/appeal process.
The next CBA will be a big topic next week in Pebble Beach, Calif., when NHL owners meet for the Board of Governors meeting. Yes, realignment will be the lead item as owners try to resolve that tricky issue, but a full CBA update and discussion will also be among the agenda items.
The NHL and NHLPA are expected to commence labor talks sometime after the All-Star Game.We actually had a trade in the NHL on Friday when Carolina and Montreal exchanged old, Czech blueliners with Tomas Kaberle going to the Habs and Jaroslav Spacek to Carolina.
The key here is that Carolina unloaded Kaberle's contract, which calls for two more years after this season at $4.25 million per year. Spacek will be an unrestricted free agent July 1, so the Hurricanes gain financially.
"I can't believe Jim Rutherford was able to unload that contract," said an NHL team executive who requested anonymity.
The Canadiens are gambling that Kaberle can find his old ways and help kick-start a struggling power play. The Habs' power play ranks 28th in the league, and the team is 25th in goals per game.
Kaberle has actually played some of the better games in his career at the Bell Centre (26 points in 32 games), but that version of Kaberle hasn't been seen in a few years. He didn't play well for Boston last spring and has been terrible for the Canes this season. He has nine points in 29 games to go along with a multitude of defensive miscues.
If the gamble doesn't pay off, you have Canadiens GM Pierre Gauthier possibly adding another bad contract to a payroll that already has Scott Gomez for two more years after this season at $7.3 million per season. And the jury is still out on Andrei Markov's deal (three years, $5.75 million a season), which the blueliner still hasn't played under as he recovers from knee issues.
This was a desperate move by a team in desperation.Billionaire Terry Pegula has invested heavily both on and off the ice with the hopes of a championship run in Buffalo.
Days away from Christmas, the Sabres are not that team yet.
Some Sabres fans are calling for the heads of the head coach and GM. Other fans want trades.
Sabres president Ted Black, Pegula’s trusted lieutenant, spoke with ESPN.com on Monday and his message was one of patience.
Our first question dealt with head coach Lindy Ruff. Is he on the hot seat?
“No, no, he’s not the reason we are where we are right now,” Black said. “Injuries and execution probably mean more than that.
“I don’t know of a coach that has done so much with so little for so long than Lindy,” added the Sabres team president. “We’ve only been on the job here for 10 months; we’re going to give him all the assets he needs to be successful.”
Black also gave GM Darcy Regier a vote of confidence.
“The job Darcy did in the offseason was fantastic,” said Black. “He went out and traded for an experienced defenseman [Robyn Regehr] who waived his no-trade clause to come to Buffalo. Which is something this franchise hasn’t experienced in a long, long time. Darcy also went out and acquired two of the more premier free agents available.”
Don’t get me wrong, Black sounded very sincere in backing his GM and coach. But ownership reserves the right to change its mind whenever it wants. That’s the story of pro sports.
In the short term, Black is asking Sabres fans to be patient.
“And I also recognize the inherent cruelty of asking fans who have been through 40 winters of disappointment to have patience or to ask them to have a sense of hope and promise,” said Black. “Never in the history of the Sabres has there been a time when the ownership put more resources in the pursuit of building a championship franchise. We’re almost 10 months into this; we’re not going to panic. We’re going to do everything we can to improve the team whenever we can improve it.”
But the Sabres president understands the fans’ anger.
“I get it,” he said. “I know these fans are so frustrated. I live in the city, I live in the community; I know how badly they want a championship team. We’re going to do everything we can to deliver it. When I say be patient, I’m not asking for blind faith or blind belief or blind trust; because Buffalo fans are smarter than accepting those empty promises. We’re asking them to stick with us. We’re right on the trajectory. Maybe it doesn’t feel like it. Maybe it doesn’t feel like it today, but we are going to continue the vigorous pursuit to bring the Cup to Buffalo.”
Next season’s Winter Classic
This season’s Winter Classic hasn’t even been played yet in Philadelphia and some fans have asked me where I think the game will be played in January 2013.
The event generates so much interest that you can’t blame them for asking. Everyone wants a piece of this thing.
I would certainly put the Detroit Red Wings in the mix as a possibility.
“Ever since we played in the one at Wrigley Field (Jan. 1, 2009), it was such a positive experience; we’d love to host one,” Red Wings GM Ken Holland told ESPN.com on Monday. “We think it would be a wonderful thing for our city, our franchise and our fans. We’ve expressed that to the league and they know we’re interested.”
Given Detroit’s stature in the league as an Original Six franchise and as the model organization it has been the past two decades, the league owes it to the Red Wings to give them one in my opinion, and I think it’ll happen whether that’s next season or within the next few years.
You can also add the Minnesota Wild and their passionate hockey fans as people wanting to host a Winter Classic, and that organization has also made that clear to the NHL.
“We’d take a game any year,” Wild GM Chuck Fletcher told ESPN.com via email Monday.
And don’t forget the Washington Capitals. In announcing the Caps-Penguins Winter Classic for Jan. 1, 2011, during a news conference at the June 2010 Stanley Cup finals, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman promised a game in D.C. “within the next two to three years.”
Caps owner Ted Leonsis confirmed to ESPN.com via email Monday that his organization still wants to host a Winter Classic, but has not had any talks on the matter yet with the league.
“We will host one, one day -- but no year specifically was ever promised to us,” Leonsis said.
Detroit, Minnesota or Washington -- that would be my list of three options for next season.
The league traditionally waits until the second half of the season to begin its focus on the following year’s Winter Classic possibilities, wanting first to analyze the feedback from this year’s game before moving on to the next one.
Ducks and Selanne
With each passing day it’s becoming pretty obvious the Anaheim Ducks won’t be a playoff team this season.
Will Teemu Selanne end his season in Anaheim? Jamie Sabau/Getty Images
Not exactly the way Teemu Selanne had envisioned ending his career, if this is in fact the last season for the 41-year-old winger.
Which brings us to a question a lot of people are beginning to ask: Could Selanne find himself on a contender come the Feb. 27 trade deadline?
“No, he’s retiring a Duck and that’s the way it’s going to be,” Ducks GM Bob Murray told ESPN.com on Tuesday. “But the way he’s playing, why should he retire?”
Murray, meanwhile, took winger Bobby Ryan off the trade market earlier this month when he instead fired head coach Randy Carlyle in the hope that a shake-up would turn around Anaheim’s season.
The turnaround hasn’t happened. My guess is that if the Ducks are still near the basement come February, Murray will begin to listen on offers for Ryan again.
Turris Trade
Senators GM Bryan Murray woke up Friday morning not feeling at all like the front-runner to land Kyle Turris. About 30 hours later, the player was his.
The main stumbling block on Friday was the fact that the Phoenix Coyotes were still asking for a first-round pick to be part of the deal. That was a no-go for Murray.
By Friday night, Coyotes GM Don Maloney had downgraded to a second-round pick, and while the two sides still had not agreed to a deal, Murray felt better about his chances when he went to bed Friday night.
On Saturday morning, Maloney phoned back and the trade had changed in size -- it got smaller. On Tuesday, Murray confirmed that the original deal both teams had talked about last week involved “more players.”
In the end, Maloney wanted a smaller deal -- Turris in exchange for David Rundblad and a second-round pick. Murray quickly thought about it Saturday and said yes. The Sens GM didn’t have much time to waste. Maloney had two other clubs in the final mix also willing to trade for Turris and pressed Murray for a quick answer.
In the end, Maloney got terrific value in return in a young puck-moving blueliner with Rundblad’s upside. But Murray felt the Senators could afford to move him given the presence of Erik Karlsson, Jared Cowen and all the other young depth the organization has on defense.
“We’ve been looking for a second-line center almost from the day I got here years ago,” Murray said Tuesday. “I’m happy with the deal.”Scott Burnside and Craig Custance discuss the race for the No. 1 spot in the Southeast Division and what the Canucks should do at the trade deadline.
Burnside: Good day, my friend. Hope you are well-rested after the All-Star festival. I know I’ve been banging the Florida Panthers’ drum all season, but just when you want to count them out, they seem to find a way to stay in the picture, which is so unlike Panthers teams from the past decade. Wednesday night was a case in point. No Jose Theodore (knee), no Kris Versteeg (illness), no Scottie Upshall (sports hernia), no Jack Skille (shoulder), no problem as the Panthers downed Washington 4-2 to jump all the way from ninth place in the Eastern Conference to third as they regained sole possession of the Southeast Division lead.
True, the Capitals were playing the second of back-to-back games in Florida, having lost in overtime the previous night to Tampa. And Caps netminder Michal Neuvirth did allow a couple of long bombs to Mikael Samuelsson to give the Panthers the win. Still, it was a big win for the Panthers, who haven’t made the playoffs since 2000. It also illustrated the very real possibility that this will be one of those rare (and ugly) situations where one of these teams will win the division and enjoy home ice in the first round and the other will go golfing come mid-April.
The Capitals played their third straight game without Alex Ovechkin, who was suspended three games for his reckless hit on Zbynek Michalek. They were 1-1-1 over that period and looked pretty ordinary. But then again, they’ve looked pretty ordinary all season. So the battle for the Southeast Division title may end up being a turtle race, but a compelling turtle race nonetheless.
Custance: I know the situation well. I had the pleasure of covering the mighty Thrash's one and only playoff appearance, when they won the Southeast and earned the No. 3 seed only to get steamrolled in the first round of the playoffs by the New York Rangers. You can't help but wonder if we're seeing the same thing here. Although if the playoffs started today, Florida would be playing Ottawa in a series that I think would be pretty even. And just like we all predicted in the preseason. Right?
But it was a heck of a win for the banged-up Panthers. If you're counting, that's now three goals in the past two games for Samuelsson, who could end up being a useful veteran player down the stretch for the Panthers now that he's healthy. I saw that trade with Vancouver more as a way for GM Dale Tallon to get out of David Booth's contract, but it could end up being more than that. For the record, Booth showed signs of regaining his scoring touch before the All-Star break with goals in three consecutive games.
But it looks like the Capitals are going to have their hands full with the resilient Panthers heading down the stretch. Especially if the Caps can't win on the road. Maybe the return of Ovechkin can spark a Washington win streak. You optimistic?
Burnside: Honestly, I'm not sure what to make of the Capitals. The Ovechkin issue is secondary in my mind compared to the continuing absence of Nicklas Backstrom, who remains sidelined thanks to Rene Bourque’s cowardly elbow to the head of the Caps’ most important player; Bourque drew a paltry five-game suspension for the incident. Backstrom is the straw that stirs the team’s drink offensively, and without him they are just one in a group of flawed teams near the bottom of the playoff bracket.
The goaltending, too, remains an issue as the Capitals are tied for 21st in goals allowed per game. It's funny how a year ago the Caps, under former coach Bruce Boudreau, were one of the toughest teams to play against. But that isn’t the case this season, and while coach Dale Hunter likes to find a hot goalie and ride him -- Tomas Vokoun has been the guy in 13 of the past 16 contests -- is there anything that suggests he’s the guy to lead them to the playoffs, let alone the promised land? I think not. But Neuvirth, the goalie of record a season ago, also seems to have taken a step back, perhaps because he hasn’t played much. Either way, the Caps are in a much different place than we’re used to seeing them at as we head toward the trade deadline.
You mentioned David Booth and the Canucks. I’m looking forward to Detroit’s visit to Vancouver tonight; the Canucks could pull to within a point of the Red Wings and the overall lead in the Western Conference with a regulation win. I was a bit surprised to see goaltender Cory Schneider get the start in the Canucks’ first game back after the break, an exciting overtime win over Chicago. His play -- he’s 11-5-0 with a .928 save percentage -- and the approaching trade deadline have ramped up the debate over whether GM Mike Gillis should shop him for a big, talented winger to bulk up what is once again a Cup-contending lineup. Thoughts?
Custance: Here's the camp I'm in when it comes to Schneider. The Vancouver Canucks have this window right now to win a Stanley Cup. It's not time for Gillis to be conservative. If he can get a huge return for Schneider, whose value has to be at an all-time high based on how he's playing right now (and I've never heard a scout say a bad thing about him), I say he has to do it. I thought good friend Mark Spector nailed it in his column on the issue. The Canucks are married to Roberto Luongo and, if it's postseason goalie insurance you want, go get Evgeni Nabokov or someone like that after you trade Schneider. Vancouver could use another big body up front, and as Brian Burke is finding out in Toronto, those aren't easy to come by. Schneider, a restricted free agent after this season, is only going to get more expensive this summer, and it wouldn't be wise to tie up a bunch of money in goal. That money needs to be allocated elsewhere on the roster.
Wouldn't GM Steve Yzerman love a goalie like Schneider to build around in Tampa? Wouldn't Ryan Malone be a great fit for Vancouver's needs? There aren't many contending teams that have an asset as valuable as Schneider who is expendable. They need to take advantage. Agree?
Burnside: I would agree with you, my friend, if I thought for a second that Luongo is "the guy" to take that next step and win a Stanley Cup. I agree entirely that GMs who are hesitant or conservative rarely win the big prize. Look at the work Peter Chiarelli did in building the Bruins by trading star Phil Kessel, etc., or Ray Shero did in Pittsburgh adding Marian Hossa, Bill Guerin and Chris Kunitz. But given how well Schneider has played and how confident the Canucks are with him behind them, I’m not entirely sure they can win a Cup without him. How about that? Do you really think Luongo has the mental fortitude to carry the Canucks four rounds? Has there been anything about his play in recent years to suggest he is that guy? Maybe you can learn to be that guy. Maybe being humiliated on the national stage in last year's Cup, as Luongo was, will galvanize him and allow Gillis the luxury of turning Schneider into a Ryan Malone or something even more valuable.
My take is this: If the Canucks win the Cup this June, it’s because Schneider has a hand, maybe a significant hand, in the Cup journey. If Schneider is dealt, the Canucks don’t get there in part because they won’t have the depth between the pipes that Luongo and his mental tics suggest they will need.
Custance: I disagree, Scotty. If they get a significant piece for Schneider, Luongo is more than enough of a goalie to win the Stanley Cup. I saw what you saw in Boston during the finals when he imploded. I understand that sentiment. But he also had moments when he showed he can be a big-game goalie, including Game 7 against the Blackhawks. Alex Burrows doesn't score the game-winner if Luongo doesn't make that save against Patrick Sharp in overtime. I really believe that the Canucks would have won the Stanley Cup with Luongo if Ryan Kesler hadn't been injured, and that takes nothing away from a great Bruins team. We know there's going to be attrition over the course of a playoff run, and I think it's more important for the Canucks to address their forward depth and acquire a physical presence up front than it is to hedge their bet with Luongo.
It's been fun, Scott. Have a great one.It has been six years since the NHL abolished the practice of compensation for teams allowing personnel to accept promotions on other teams.
For years, this was the standard practice. For example, when Dean Lombardi left the Philadelphia Flyers as a scout in April 2006 to accept the GM job in Los Angeles, the Flyers received a second-round pick from the Kings.
A month later, Peter Chiarelli left the Ottawa Senators' organization for the Boston Bruins' GM job. The ensuing feud between the teams over compensation led to commissioner Gary Bettman saying enough is enough. He stopped the practice of team compensation over lost front-office personnel.
As of 2006-07, teams could either release a coach or scout or management-type for a job in another organization or choose not to. But there would be no compensation.
Now there’s a growing feeling among some GMs that it’s time to bring back some form of compensation because it’s not fair to lose an organizational asset and get nothing in return.
"If you have a good organization and run a good organization, you attract good people that want to work for your organization," Penguins GM Ray Shero told ESPN.com this week. "You shouldn’t be penalized for that when they leave."
Shero has brought it up with the league’s head office. He’s firmly supported on this notion by the likes of veteran GMs Brian Burke and David Poile.
"Yes, I’ve been pushing this since the league eliminated it," Burke told ESPN.com this week. "It’s got pretty good support at the GM level."
Burke, having worked in the league office in years past, fully understands the reasoning Bettman had for ending it.
"Gary said, 'Either you let people go for no compensation or you decide not to let them go,'" Burke said. "Which has wonderful simplicity to it. But it also in my mind is not the best way. If you have an eye for talent and you hire good assistant coaches or assistant GMs, and other teams want to give them a chance, you should get something for that."
Burke points to the Detroit Red Wings. Steve Yzerman, after retirement, learned the management ropes under GM Ken Holland and assistant GM Jim Nill before moving on to Tampa Bay before last season as GM.
"For Kenny Holland to get nothing for Steve Yzerman after having him there four years, it’s not right," said Burke. "Why shouldn’t they get a draft pick for him?"
Burke has asked the league to address the topic as an agenda item next week when the GMs meet in Boca Raton, Fla., but wasn’t sure whether the league would indeed have it on there.
Clearly, at this point the league has no appetite for bringing back team compensation.
"This has been discussed with both the general managers and with the board of governors, and there is no consensus sentiment to change the current policy at this time,’’ NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly told ESPN.com via email.
But it’s a question of fairness, said Poile, a thoughtful and well-respected executive in the NHL community.
"It’s a tough topic," Poile told ESPN.com. "It’s one of those things that’s not equal and I don’t think you’re going to get everyone on the same page. If you look around the league the last several years, and the development of scouts, managers and coaches and where they come from, there’s no way you can say it’s spread equally around, that all organizations are developing people. Because that’s not true. Some organizations aren’t developing any people. Some organizations are not letting any of their people go, even upon request. On the flip side of that, there are organizations who are developing people, promoting them and letting them go [to other teams]. Thus, it’s not equal. And when something is not equal, that’s not fair. And that’s the dilemma that we have.’’
Both Shero and Burke pointed to Nashville as a great, recent example of the current inequity of the system.
The Predators hired Kirk Muller to coach their AHL team in Milwaukee last offseason. Two months into this season, the Predators didn’t stand in his way when Muller accepted Carolina’s head coaching job. Not only did the Predators get nothing in return, they were left scrambling to fill his position in Milwaukee.
"And that’s the rub," said Poile. "If Kirk had been in certain other organizations, there’s not a chance he’d be coaching in Carolina today."
That's because other organizations don’t allow personnel to leave in those instances, Poile said.
Shero’s argument is that if there was compensation, say a draft pick, more teams might be willing to release personnel.
"It might probably lead to even more movement," said Shero, who lost both Chuck Fletcher and Mike Yeo to the Minnesota Wild organization in recent years. "Because it’s hard to fill positions, good people are often under contract. The hardest one is during the season. What do you do if someone comes to you and wants to hire one of your people during the season? You might say no, and then you kind feel bad, you wonder what’s morally right."
Timing is a huge factor, said Poile.
"I can’t imagine the pressure a GM would be under if during the middle of the season another team asked permission to take one of his assistant coaches to be a head coach," said Poile. "Sure, you’re cheering for the guy to get ahead, but how do you replace him at that point?"
Somehow though, as difficult as it is to find the right parameters, there has to be a solution.
"I’m not sure what the answer is but I would probably favor some form of compensation," said Poile. "I know it’s something we’re discussing again at the managers’ level with the league. There’s got to be a compromise there that at the same time is not too punitive."
Not all GMs agree, however.
"No, I’m fine with the way it is now," veteran GM Bryan Murray of the Ottawa Senators told ESPN.com. "I think you just hope that all the teams don’t stand in the way of their people trying to advance themselves. We should all be encouraging the development of young people in our organizations and allowing them to leave if they find better opportunities or better positions. But I don’t think bringing back compensation for teams would help that."The Buffalo Sabres have been on a tear, going 11-2-3 since Feb. 19 and narrowing what was once a 10-point deficit behind the eighth and final playoff spot to just one point entering Friday night’s tough matchup at Madison Square Garden against the Eastern Conference-leading Rangers.
Not surprisingly, leading the way in the Sabres’ late-season charge has been 2010 Olympic tournament MVP Ryan Miller. The 2009-10 Vezina Trophy winner has stopped 448 of 477 shots in his 15 starts during his team’s five-week run for a sparkling .939 save percentage.
"We were a talented team that needed to grow and find a core identity way before anyone should have called us a contender," Ryan Miller said. Bill Wippert/NHLI via Getty Images
Among the more insightful interviews in the NHL, Miller answered some questions via email during his team’s flight to New York on Thursday. I sent him the questions just before he boarded the flight.
LEBRUN: Your team has been on fire since mid-February. What sparked the turnaround in your mind? Was there a "moment" that changed everything, or was it more of a process?
MILLER: Personally, I think it was mainly attention to our high forward in the O-zone and neutral zone and playing better team defense. It allowed for more puck pressure and fewer odd-man rushes against. Teams have had to try to generate offense by working in our D-zone, and there are better odds we will have four to five guys back. I think it was a culmination of "enough is enough" with losing. It took us too long into the season to establish a system that played to our strengths as a team, but we have more of an identity now, and we have a chance to compete with the top teams.
LEBRUN: Is this the team, the way it is playing now, that you envisioned back in September?
MILLER: Not quite. Each year the lineup is never what you start with through injury and trade. ... This team is a little different than I expected. But we are becoming more effective as we gain confidence in our game. This team is starting to look like a team that can achieve. I always just expect attention to detail and a competitive attitude from our teams. We didn't have that early on. We are gaining some back now.
LEBRUN: Do you think given all the hype and preseason expectations that it was hard on your team to deal with it in the first half?
MILLER: Yes. This is by no means an excuse, but I think being labeled as "Cup Contenders" simply because of hype and our change in ownership hurt our mentality and approach. Instead of building toward smaller goals as a team and creating the culture and identity of a championship-caliber team, we skipped major steps in an our approach. ... Plus, we didn't earn or deserve the label at all, so instead of growing and building in a positive light toward being contenders by playing the games and going through the challenges, we were constantly viewed as failing in every situation in the fans' eyes and in the media, and we had to constantly answer for something that I don't think we should have been labeled. We were a talented team that needed to grow and find a core identity way before anyone should have called us a contender.
LEBRUN: You took some heat individually for your play earlier in the season, unfairly or not, but certainly your numbers have noticeably improved. Have you done anything differently?
MILLER: The goalie always gets heat. ... I don't blame fans or media for talking about hockey; it is fun to be passionate about the game. I try not to pay attention because, unless you have played goalie in the NHL, I don't think anyone can understand what it is like to stand in there and be one of us, to put yourself out there every night. This year, a lot of opinion I normally avoid or ignore was dragged into the locker room by the media, and I took it hard. But I kept working and searching for my comfort level. I finally remembered I love to play and I am not doing it for what people outside the locker think about me. I'm doing it because I love hockey and I love to win. I love making saves and being on a team. I love the challenge.
As for doing anything differently. ... Goalie reflects team. Team reflects goalie. Once I was healthy I started building back my focus and awareness, and that took some time. ... I noticed my game turning when my mind was more at ease and I settled down and allowed the play to unfold. ... All of which came when we started being a more responsible team. Knowing my guys are around me allows me to read the play and commit to saves. Without them, I have to cover more options, and the odds of making a save or second save aren't as good. Having the boys cover my back and work hard makes my job easier. Every goalie in history is a reflection of how well his team plays the game. It is a team sport, and a team effort is needed to win. I just need to do my part.Could a 60-goal season put Steven Stamkos over the hump for the Hart Trophy?
While Evgeni Malkin of the Pittsburgh Penguins is whole-heartedly deserving of the Hart Trophy talk he’s getting -- especially with Sidney Crosby having been out most of the season -- at least one former Hart winner believes Stamkos also deserves mention.
"For sure, not just the goal scoring but it’s the timely goal scoring," fellow Tampa star Martin St. Louis, the 2003-04 NHL MVP, told ESPN.com Wednesday evening.
He’s had a first-row seat of his linemate again this season -- and what kind of season Stamkos is having: 55 goals and counting going into Thursday night’s game at New Jersey. He’s got six games to score five goals and hit 60.
"Some of the times you’re just thinking, 'If I can just get him the puck,' because you know it’s most likely going to be a goal,” said St. Louis, who is admittedly not completely objective about his teammate. "For me, I know we’re looking like a non-playoff team, but it’s an MVP season."
It will be interesting how the voting for two of the game’s most prestigious trophies goes down. Selected members of the Professional Hockey Writers’ Association vote for the Hart, which goes to the MVP of the league. The players, meanwhile, vote on the Ted Lindsay Award, the NHLPA’s award for the most outstanding player in the regular season.
There’s a difference in the definition of both awards. You have a feeling not making the playoffs will hurt Stamkos more in the Hart voting than in the Lindsay tally.
"Not making the playoffs is not going to help him, that’s for sure," allowed St. Louis. "But if he gets to 60 goals, hopefully he gets at least one of those two awards."
No one has registered 60 goals since Alex Ovechkin scored 65 in 2007-08. What makes Stamkos’ chase of 60 even more daunting is that scoring is down again this season, for the fourth season in a row (from 5.8 goals per game in 2008-09 to 5.4 in 2011-12; both numbers are through 1,153 games). He might end up being the only player with 50-plus goals unless Malkin can score four goals before the end of the regular season.
"His 55 is the new 65," argued one rival NHL scout, who asked for anonymity.
The scout in question recently worked the Lightning-Bruins game in Boston. He came away incredibly impressed.
"He scores on his one-timer even when everyone knows it's coming," said the scout. "He's on another level in terms of finish; few people beat [Tim] Thomas clean with a wrist shot off a wide rush. ... Never underestimate the power and explosiveness that he has developed through his obvious commitment off-ice training -- indicative of his unquenchable desire to be the best.’’
A few years ago, when Stamkos was en route to his first 50-goal season, I spoke with Wayne Gretzky about the lad from Markham, Ontario, and the first thing The Great One pointed to was Stamkos' work ethic.
It was obvious Stamkos had all kinds of all-world skill, "but all that stuff doesn't matter if you don't work hard," Gretzky said at the time. "And he works extremely hard and that's why he's successful."
Stamkos has had the perfect mentor in St. Louis to glean that from. Few players have maximized their talent in this league like he has. The pint-sized winger is the epitome of hard work and dedication, and it’s clear that’s had an effect on Stamkos.
"Stammer has really high expectations of himself, he’s conscious of raising the bar and he’s conscious of what that means the following year and what he has to do," said St. Louis. "To keep that success is even harder. But guys like Stammer are aware of that. They put the time in to give themselves a chance to meet those expectations. That’s why not everybody can do that. You might have the speed but not the shot, you might have the shot but not the speed, you might have the mind but the shot. You need everything to be doing the things that he’s doing. He has it."
That includes making adjustments to your game. One thing that’s noticeable this season is how Stamkos has found a new way to score goals: it’s not just one-timers from the slot, where he’s always been lethal, but he’s become more adept at deflections and shoveling in rebounds.
"I always feel that you have to reinvent yourself every year,’’ St. Louis said. "Obviously, you know where your strong attributes are, you know ways you can score goals. But if you just rely on those ways you know you can score goals, teams are so smart -- there’s so much video in this game -- they’re just going to take it away somewhat. You have to reinvent yourself all the time. You need to find different ways to score goals. And he’s done that. He’s got a lot of goals on tip-ins and in the paint.’’
You may wonder 800 words into this story why it is the man himself isn’t quoted in this story. It’s because I know Stamkos isn’t terribly interested in waxing poetic on his sensational offensive season because his team isn’t playoff-bound. That’s why I chose to have his veteran linemate do the talking for him.
"He has his priorities straight in terms of what’s important," said St. Louis. "He’d trade all those goals to be in the playoffs. That’s why it’s hard to talk about yourself when you’re on the outside looking in. It comes from being humble and going back to how he was brought up. He comes from a good family.’’
It’s clear St. Louis has grown incredibly fond of his young teammate.
"For everything that he’s done already in this league, there could easily be a cockiness about him, but there isn’t,’’ said St. Louis. "I’ve said this many times: He’s a great player and I think he’s an even better person. That’s why you’re happy when a person like that has success. It’s so well-deserved.’’TORONTO -- Picture a Detroit Red Wings blue line with both Nicklas Lidstrom and Ray Bourque on it.
Jimmy Devellano certainly did.
Jim Devellano said he used to come to the Hockey Hall of Fame and spend hours reading the plaques of the inductees. Bruce Bennett/Getty Images
"One of the guys that I always tried to make a pitch for late in his career, I tried three or four times, was to acquire Raymond Bourque," Devellano said Monday morning during his Hockey Hall of Fame media availability. "He was getting a little older but I knew he could still play. He'd be terrific under Scotty Bowman for a few more years. I thought we could win a Cup with Raymond Bourque."
The former Detroit GM, set for induction into the Hockey Hall of Fame on Monday, said he kept trying but realized after a while that the Bruins would never trade him to Detroit.
"We had had some squabbles with Boston over the years, mainly because they thought we spent too much money," Devellano said.
Devellano was being polite. What he didn't want to mention, but which is pretty common knowledge elsewhere, is that Bruins owner Jeremy Jacobs and Red Wings owner Mike Ilitch had quite a feud running for a while, which boiled over in a heated argument at a Board of Governors meeting. Trade Bourque to Detroit? Over Jacobs' dead body.
"So what do they do? They trade him to Colorado and they win another Cup with Bourque," Devellano said, laughing. "So we kind of got screwed twice by guys going to Colorado. Patrick Roy first, and then Ray Bourque. But in between we were able to squeeze in a few Cups, so that was good."
Devellano did his fare share of winning with both the Red Wings and New York Islanders dynasties, winning four Stanley Cups with each franchise in various front-office roles.
Favorite trades?
"In the mid-80s I traded Kelly Kisio to the Rangers for Glen Hanlon," Devellano said. "That really worked out well for us. Glen gave us solid goaltending and we were able to go to the final four in back-to-back years."
But his best one was probably acquiring Brendan Shanahan from Hartford in October 1996.
"We were starting to look like a Stanley Cup team," he said. "Keith Primeau wanted out of Detroit badly, so [we] made quite a big trade. We traded Primeau, Paul Coffey and a first-round pick [Nikos Tselios] for Brendan Shanahan [and Brian Glynn]. And that turned out maybe to be as good as a deal as we ever made."
In 1993, Devellano also made a critical decision that helped crystallize Detroit's modern-day winning ways. The Wings needed a new coach.
"There was a lot of talk that Mike Keenan was headed our way and I went to ownership and really discouraged it," Devellano said. "I was asked by my owner, 'Well, what do you want me to do? I need a coach that can help us win in the playoffs.'
"My answer to Mike Ilitch was, 'Let's hire either Scotty Bowman or Al Arbour.'
"He looked at me and said, 'Go get one of them.'
"I said, 'Which one do you want?'
"He said, 'I don't care. Bring either one of them.' We got Scotty, and the rest is history."
Devellano was clearly humbled by Monday's events. The Toronto native said he used to come to the Hockey Hall of Fame and spend hours reading the plaques of the inductees. Now he's one of them.
His success in Long Island and Detroit made him a no-brainer decision for the Hall of Fame selection committee.
"People say, 'What makes you successful?,'" Devellano said. "I'll tell you what it is: good hockey players. With the Islanders it was Denis Potvin, Bryan Trottier, Mike Bossy, Billy Smith. With the Red Wings, it's been Steve Yzerman, Nick Lidstrom, Brendan Shanahan; I could go on and on ...
"It's been a lot of fun."ABOUT COOKIES
To help make this website better, to improve and personalize your experience and for advertising purposes, are you happy to accept cookies and other technologies?At this point, Wade Redden has pretty much seen it all.
Redden is locked out just like 700-odd other NHLers and facing nary a paycheck until the labor impasse is resolved.
Except that, well, Redden hasn’t played in the NHL in 2½ years.
Talk about adding insult to injury. If it didn't hurt his pride enough to be turfed in the AHL for two seasons, his contract too heavy for the New York Rangers to move, now he’s been dragged into a lockout involving a league he hasn’t sniffed since his last NHL game in April 2010.
Not sure there’s a more unique story in this lockout at this point.
"It is a pretty rare case, I guess," Redden told ESPN.com Thursday from Kelowna, B.C., his offseason home. "My mindset now is that hopefully it’s written into the new CBA where stuff like that won’t happen or make it harder to happen so you get a guy, like, out of that situation."
The "situation" he’s referring to is that he was stuck in Hartford of the AHL the past two seasons without any real options, a victim of the system. The Rangers didn't want to count his $6.5 million against the salary cap after he struggled in the first two years of his six-year, $39 million contract. He has two years left on that deal, which was supposed to pay him $5 million this season and $5 million in 2013-14. But the Rangers, well within their rights, didn’t assign him to the AHL this season and therefore won’t have to pay him his $5 million salary during the lockout.
The Rangers were never able to move that contract under the restricted nature of the expired CBA, because when a trade was made teams couldn’t split the cost of a player's remaining salary. In other pro sports, like baseball, splitting salary helps facilitate moving players (like the Yankees paying some of pitcher A.J. Burnett’s salary this year after the trade with the Pittsburgh Pirates).
In the future, Redden hopes a player in his situation might have a way out if there are more contract options for an NHL team.
Redden says the NHLPA has been terrific in keeping him informed on matters. Time will tell on the CBA front whether his type of situation is addressed, but in the meantime, Redden is working out and skating every day in Kelowna.
Because he played in the AHL last season, Redden could sign an AHL deal just for the duration of the NHL lockout since the AHL added that criteria for players affected by the NHL lockout who played in the AHL last year.
However, the risk for Redden is that if he got injured while playing under that new AHL contract, he’d risk exposing himself to a suspension without pay from the Rangers once the lockout ended if he was unfit to play. It’s a risk every NHLer who goes to Europe is taking.
So for now, Redden is biding his time, while hoping that the new CBA will bring with it some kind of buyout or amnesty clause that will allow him to leave the Rangers.
"I don’t know, I guess we’ll see, but I’m 35 now and I want to get back in the league and show what I can do," Redden said.
The former All-Star in Ottawa would be an excellent buy-low candidate if he does become an NHL free agent. He’s got a chip on his shoulder and he’s hungry to prove he can still play in the NHL.
"I definitely have a sour taste in my mouth from how things went in New York," said Redden.
"With that said, I went to Hartford and my time there was positive. I don’t regret that. They treated me great there. But everyone wants to be in the NHL. That’s where I was for a long time and that’s where I want to get back."
Named captain of the Whale last March, Redden is a character guy and, for NHL teams looking to upgrade in that department, he’d fit right in.
The last two years have been taxing, but he’s come out of it a stronger person.
"I’m in a pretty good place right now. I’ve had a really good summer in terms of working out and I’m going to keep that up through the lockout," he said.
"I can’t complain; since I got sent down, I got two daughters, and everyone is healthy and happy. So there’s nothing really to be too upset about."Both sides in the NHL’s labor impasse are a little gun shy with new proposals.
You have to think that will soon change, but there have been no new proposals tabled by either the NHL or the NHL Players’ Association since their dueling, rejected offers on Sept. 12.
The NHL has been front and center in saying the process won’t progress until the players bring forward a new proposal.
The NHLPA in return feels like it’s been the only side willing to compromise at all in any of its previous offers.
My sense, in speaking to various sources over the past few days, is that both sides, to a degree, are a little trepid to drop the next new offer for fear that the other side will simply pocket whatever compromise is included in that new offer and then use it as part of a future offer.
There’s history here.
When the NHLPA dropped a bombshell offer in December 2004 to roll back salaries 24 percent, the league indeed pocketed that juicy baby in every single version of its future proposals, and, when the lockout ended in 2005, the 24 percent rollback was part of the new CBA.
Hence, the trepidation, especially from the NHLPA, of moving too soon with more compromises in a new offer.
The players’ negotiating committee (60-plus players) held a conference call Monday in which NHLPA executive director Donald Fehr, according to sources, chatted with them about the fact the league wanted a new offer. The sense on the call was that the players feel like they’re negotiating against themselves at this point if they make another offer soon.
The league, conversely, will tell you it is the only side that has tangibly changed its offer three times, while the players -- in the NHL’s view -- keep offering a similar version of the same deal.
Regardless of the rhetoric from both sides, the only thing that will change this stalemate is a new offer with real compromise.
I think one of the theories on the NHLPA side is that because there’s no meaningful financial pressure until November on the players -- due to the fact the players are getting escrow checks from last season this month -- the league and owners are simply waiting them out.
Hence, when is the right time to deliver the next proposal?
Tick tock ...
NHL schedule
The league canceled two weeks’ worth of regular-season games Thursday, with more to come if bargaining talks remain at a standstill.
If and when there’s finally a new CBA, you can expect the NHL to try and cram as many games as possible into a schedule -- although not quite as crammed as the NBA made its schedule last season after its own lockout-shortened the year, the NHL cognizant of the safety factors for its players.
The 1994-95 NHL lockout-shortened season didn’t see a Stanley Cup awarded until June 24, and a source confirmed to ESPN.com that the NHL is comfortable using all of June to fit in a refitted schedule if need be.
More to Europe
With Claude Giroux now off to Berlin, that makes it four of the top five NHL leading scorers from last season taking their services overseas.
Giroux, third in NHL scoring last season, joins Evgeni Malkin (No. 1), Jason Spezza (No. 4) and Ilya Kovalchuk (No. 5) as lockout refugees across the pond.
That leaves No. 2 point-getter Steven Stamkos (who led the NHL with 60 goals) still here in North America. For now ...
It also leaves the game’s top player still on this side of the ocean. Sidney Crosby has indicated an interest in playing overseas at some point in time depending on the how the lockout went.
"Sidney continues his training," his agent Pat Brisson of CAA Sports told ESPN.com on Thursday. "There hasn't been any indication for him heading to Europe, although we are entertaining conversations with teams and leagues overseas. If the lockout persists, the conversations might become more serious."
Meanwhile, Martin Brodeur told ESPN.com via text message Wednesday that he would likely wait until the end of the month before deciding whether or not to pursue opportunities to play in Europe. While it’s generally harder for a goalie to find a job, given the smaller amount of openings, you have to imagine teams overseas would be lining up to have a chance to dress the NHL’s all-time winningest goalie.
And finally, Winnipeg Jets captain Andrew Ladd isn’t going to the KHL after all. Omsk announced his signing, but Ladd had a change of heart because of family reasons. A source told ESPN.com that while he had agreed to terms, the deal was never finalized.ESPN.com's Pierre LeBrun has obtained a letter sent by the NHLPA to a member of Canada's Parliament. Below is the unedited letter:
November 19, 2012
Dear Member of Parliament:
As the lockout approaches the eleventh week, I wanted to provide you with a brief update of the status of bargaining between the NHLPA and the NHL.
On October 26, 2012, the league officially informed the NHLPA that they had withdrawn their latest proposal and had cancelled regular season games until the end of November. This move was deeply disappointing for all hockey fans and everyone who makes their living from hockey, including the players. Since that time, the NHL has also cancelled the Winter Classic.
In an attempt to move the discussions forward, we met with the NHL last week for a series of meetings in New York. Unfortunately, they continue to insist that they will not move off their “take-it-or-leave it” approach to bargaining.
The players have proposed that their share of hockey-related revenue move towards the NHL’s stated desire for a 50-50 split, with the only condition being that they honour contracts they have already signed. Honouring contracts signed between owners and players is a reasonable request.
We have repeatedly advised the owners that the players are prepared to sit down and negotiate on any day, with no pre-conditions.
To be clear, the lockout was a unilateral decision taken by the owners. It is the third lockout in eighteen years. Hockey has lost more games to work stoppages than the three other professional sports leagues combined, virtually all as the
result of owners’ lockouts.
Given that the NHL has just enjoyed seven straight seasons of record revenues, we believe the owners have no justification for their actions. The players have repeatedly offered to open the season and play without a new contract in place.
Negotiations could have continued while games were played. It did not have to come to this.
The players understand the selfishness of the owners’ lockout position all too well. Countless people -- from league and team employees, to hockey fans, to small business owners and their workers are suffering unnecessarily as a result.
While we recognize that we can’t help everyone that has been affected by the owners’ decision, we’re committed to doing what we can, where we can.
As a start, we have reached out to a number of small business owners to offer assistance, even if it’s only in a modest way.
In addition, a number of our players have been working with minor hockey teams across Canada to provide coaching support. To date, there have been 88 player visits to 55 different practices. Players have also initiated and organized a number of charity hockey games in Chicago, Minnesota, Vancouver, and a number of games in Quebec. There are plans to play a game in Winnipeg as well.
I have taken the liberty of including a package of pictures and clippings of our recent activities that you might find of interest.
The players remain committed to negotiating until a deal is reached that is fair for both sides, and, more than anything, look forward to getting back on the ice.
Sincerely,
Alexandra Dagg
Director of OperationsAh, Thanksgiving Thursday in the U.S.
A chance for the NHL and NHL Players’ Association to take a deep breath and exhale after all the drama that ensued Wednesday on the labor front.
For all the rhetoric and posturing from both sides Wednesday, and the anger belted out on Twitter by players, the reality is that both sides are closer to a deal now thanks to the NHLPA’s newest proposal.
A lot closer? No. But closer nonetheless.
That might come as a shock to the players inside the bargaining room Wednesday who saw the NHL shred many elements of it, leaving them red-faced as they left the meeting.
Truth is, at least from my vantage point, the players’ latest offer had a true impact Wednesday. I know it doesn’t feel that way right now for the players, who believe they put their best foot forward only to have the league stomp on it. But in fact, the NHLPA’s willingness for the first time to base a framework on the percentage of hockey-related revenue and not a guaranteed dollar amount was a monumental shift.
Sure, hell will freeze over before the owners ever pay out $393 million on the "make-whole" provision, which the NHLPA asked for Wednesday, not to mention that little guarantee the union sneaked in there that the players’ share in total dollars can’t go down less than the previous season in the next CBA. Yeah, that’s going to be left on the cutting room floor, as well, when all is said and done.
But you see, this is the point of actual negotiation. You give and you take, you go back and forth.
There’s a deal here, which is more clear than ever after the players moved to a percentage-based framework.
Somewhere between $211 million and $393 million is your magic number for "make-whole."
The league has to step down on more of its player contracting rights. The owners are still asking for too many and too much in that area. And although I give the union credit for a creative and clever back-diving formula, until it affects not just future contracts but also existing contracts, the league won’t sign off on that, either.
There’s a lot more to mend here in the sizable gap that remains on these matters and more. But it’s there. I can see it. I can almost touch it.
If this deal doesn’t get done, it’s because the politics will have gotten in the way of measured thinking. And it’s possible that could happen.
It’s possible, for example, that hard-line owners will pressure Bettman into minimizing the $211 million "make-whole" amount or taking it off the table altogether. That would be plain dumb. And a deal killer.
It’s also possible the league’s negative in-room reaction to the NHLPA’s offer Wednesday will serve to only further galvanize the players, particularly after moderate players had won out over the hard-liners Tuesday in pushing for a proposal that went percentage-based -- i.e., a framework that spoke the league’s language.
Now those moderate players who stuck their neck out in pushing for that might feel beyond enraged at how the league took to their efforts.
"They just united us," one NHL player told me Wednesday night, pointing to the way the league handled the players’ offer.
That kind of players-wide anger could easily entrench their position and allow executive director Don Fehr to really drag this out if he feels that’s the best course of action to get a better deal. And you likely will hear more talk about decertification as an option for the union.
That puts the onus on the league, I think, to come back sooner rather than later with ideas that embrace some of the NHLPA’s proposal and continue to push this negotiation ahead.
And I think that will happen.
I don’t buy all the doom and gloom that was out there Wednesday. It was not a wasted day at all.
If and when there’s a new CBA to save a shortened season, I believe we’ll look back at the NHLPA’s offer from Wednesday and point to it as an important factor in eventually finding the path to concurrence.
Just maybe.There won’t be a Winter Classic this season, but Steven Stamkos has found his own version of it in Gary Roberts’ backyard.
Stamkos and a handful of other NHL players hit the outdoor rink this week at the home of the former NHL forward-turned-training guru.
In a year in which the lockout has frozen his superstar career, getting back to the game’s roots on the outdoor sheet has been a welcome development.
"Oh man, it’s been great," Stamkos told ESPN.com Thursday. "Gary just got the outdoor rink up and running this week, so we’ve been out there a couple of times."
Steven Stamkos joined James Neal and Steve Downie for a game at training guru Gary Roberts' backyard rink. Gary Roberts
You can sense the excitement in the 22-year-old’s voice.
"We had a big game the other night. Steve Downie was out there and James Neal," said the Tampa Bay Lightning center. "Today we had B.J. Crombeen and David Clarkson. We had our workouts in the morning and then hit the outdoor ice. We’re out there mucking it up."
Perhaps if we airlifted Gary Bettman and Donald Fehr to Roberts’ outdoor rink in Uxbridge, Ontario (near Toronto), the sensory impact of watching Stamkos -- the NHL’s top goal scorer -- skate around in open air might remind the two leaders what this is all about and fuel a fleeting breakthrough in talks.
If there is no progress in talks and the NHL season is wiped out, Sidney Crosby won’t be the only NHL superstar looking for a late-season fix in Europe. Crosby’s stated need to play games is shared.
"I’d have to agree with Sid there," Stamkos said. "That was the rationale early on when I sat down with [agents] Donnie [Meehan] and Mark [Guy]. 'Let’s wait this out. Let’s be optimistic that we get something done here and salvage some of the season. So let’s stay in shape here, work out and stay informed and go from there.'
"But if the season is in jeopardy, you’d definitely have to look at getting at least one to two months' worth of competitive games in just so you have something to gauge heading into the summer. Obviously, we hope that’s not the case -- we want to play in the NHL this year -- but if there is a threat of losing the whole year, I’m definitely going to be looking for a place to play."
Stamkos is quick to add that he still believes there will be an NHL season of some sorts -- or at least he’s hoping.
"That’s what I’m planning on anyways. I’m trying to at least tell myself that so that these workouts we’re going through every day [are] going to be beneficial in the end," he said. "We’ve got a couple of weeks here where hopefully we get some good news and we get some sort of season underway. It’s also been frustrating enough not only for the players but for the fans."
Some players talk about the fans because it’s the right thing to do in this politically charged climate. But from the mouth of Stamkos, a polite young man whom fame and money has not changed, it’s a genuine sentiment.
"Being in Atlantic City last weekend for that [Sandy] charity game and seeing all those fans and how much they’re passionate about the game and miss the game, they’re the ones that are being hurt the most right now," Stamkos said.
The Markham, Ontario, native has been largely quiet, publicly, during this lockout. He is still learning the business side of the game. But he has kept tabs on things.
"I went to the one big meeting at the beginning when we gave our initial proposal. I’ve been on some [players’] conference calls and trying to stay as informed as I can," Stamkos said. "Obviously, we have some veteran guys on our team that know a lot more about this process than I do, and I’m just trying to pick their brain on certain questions and get a general understanding of what’s going on."
Stamkos has never gone without competitive hockey this long. It’s killing him.
"The first two to three weeks were agonizing," he said. "You don’t realize how routine-oriented you are as an athlete and as a hockey player. Everything you do is geared toward the season."
He scored his 60th goal last season in his final game of the season, April 7 at Winnipeg. That’s eight months to the day next Friday, I reminded Stamkos.
"Hearing you say that, it’s crazy. Eight months without a competitive game? That’s never happened to me," he said. "Hopefully we get something done."Let’s look ahead to the moment when this abominable, revolting and shameful NHL lockout finally ends.
Whether that’s this season or next, who knows at this point?
But either way, the road to win back the hearts of fans will be a long one.
With that in mind, here are my 10 recommendations for the NHL for when it ever opens shop again -- moves that I believe would help the league make itself more appealing to fans and regain some form of relevancy in the marketplace:
1. Give away the NHL Center Ice package for the entire season after you return, as well as the Game Center package online. If you’re going to beg fans to return, might as well make it easy on them.
2. Ensure that realignment happens for the 2013-14 season. The buzz that surrounded the realignment conversation last season during the NHL’s failed attempt at switching up its conferences and divisions was surreal. Fans loved debating the future look of the league. The NHLPA, which blocked realignment last year, must work with the NHL to make realignment happen for next season. It’s what the fans want.
3. Add a "play-in" round to the playoffs. Depending on realignment, this could take on different forms. But the essence of it in my book is that you have four teams play a preliminary playoff round, two concurrent best-of-three series (perhaps two teams playing each other in the East and two in the West), to determine the final 16 spots in the playoff dance.
4. Bring back the World Cup of Hockey, but make it permanent. More importantly, have the tournament played in February every four years, right smack in the middle of the NHL season -- just like the Olympics. And yes, send your NHL players to the Olympics. So in February 2014, you’ve got NHL players in Sochi, Russia, followed by a new World Cup of Hockey in Toronto/Montreal/New York/Philadelphia/Boston in February 2016, etc. So every two years you either have the best in the world playing in the Olympics or the World Cup. Playing it in February instead of September, like the old Canada Cups/World Cup, would bring more legitimacy to the event. As for the All-Star Game, all of you know I’d like to see it canned. But for the kids out there who still get a kick out of it, I can live with having All-Star Games in the years we don’t have a World Cup or an Olympics.
5. Let’s bring in Ken Holland’s idea regarding three-on-three overtime as a way to freshen up the overtime/shootout format. You still play four-on-four for five minutes, but if there’s still no goal scored, you also play a three-on-three, five-minute period. If there’s still no goal, then you get your shootout. Three-on-three, wide open would be exciting to watch. Plus by lowering the number of shootouts, given that the three-on-three would end more games, you preserve the novelty of the shootout so it doesn't become a tired exercise. Right now there are too many shootouts deciding games.
6. Shorten the preseason, start the regular season the third week of September and make sure there's not a single playoff game played past May 31. People don't want hockey in June. OK, so maybe that’s the Canadian in me, but I’m going with it anyway.
7. Change the start of free agency from July 1 to an extension of draft weekend. So when the draft ends on that Saturday in the third week June, I would make Day 1 of free agency that Sunday and keep all 30 NHL front offices (and player agents would be welcome, for obvious reasons) in the draft city for three to four days to create a huge buzz for the start of free agency.
8. In a similar vein, why not also gather all 30 front offices in the same arena for NHL trade deadline day? Make it an even bigger media event with fans in the stands when trades are announced?
9. Strongly study the merits of having NHL teams in Europe. I'd move my six weakest NHL markets to Europe and create a European division. I know people will laugh when reading this, but I’m dead serious. Unlike some southern U.S. markets, you don’t have to explain the icing rule to folks in Helsinki, Stockholm, Prague, Zurich, Berlin and Moscow. They love and know the game there. I know there are travel issues that make this less than perfectly ideal, but it’s worth it.
10. And finally, the NHL and NHLPA should agree to a 20-year CBA with mutual options to back out in Years 7, 11, 15 and 18. I would think 20 years of labor peace sounds pretty good to everybody who cares about this game right about know.An NHL team source provided highlights from the latest offer the NHL gave to the union on Thursday:
• Ten-Year Agreement (through 2021/22 season); Parties have mutual opt-out right
after 8 years.
• 50-50 Revenue Split between Clubs and Players with current HRR Accounting.
• $300 million in “Make-Whole” payments (outside the system) to compensate Players
for the reduced value of Player contracts in the early years of the new CBA.
• No contractual “roll backs” of Player Salaries.
• Clubs can operate with an effective Upper Limit of $70.2 million in 2012/13; must
come into compliance with $60 million Upper Limit for the start of the 2013/14
season.
• Each Club will be entitled to execute up to one “Compliance Buy-Out” prior to the
2013/14 season pursuant to which payments made to the Player will not be charged
against the team’s Cap, but will be charged against the Players’ Share.
• Establishment of a Defined Benefit Pension Plan that will provide maximum
permissible benefits to Players upon retirement. The Plan will be funded with
contributions out of Players’ Share and $50 million of the “Make-Whole” payment
amount of $300 million will be allocated and set aside to fund potential underfunding
liabilities of the Plan at end of CBA.
• Rules for Entry Level System, Salary Arbitration and Group 3 Unrestricted Free
Agency will remain unchanged.
• Maximum contract length of 6 years subject to a Club’s ability to re-sign its own
Player for a term of up to 7 years (provided the Player played his last full season
with the re-signing Club). In addition, year-to-year Salary variability will be limited
(up or down) to no more than 10% of the value of the first year of a multi-year SPC.
• Money paid (above a defined threshold) to Players on NHL SPCs in another
professional league (e.g., the AHL or a European league) will be charged against the
NHL team’s Cap, but not against the Players’ Share.
• “Cap Advantage Recapture” formula applicable to existing long-term contracts (in
excess of 6 years) for years in which Player is retired or fails/refuses to perform
under his NHL SPC.
• Ability for Clubs to retain/allocate Salary and Cap Charges in the context of Player
Trades within specified parameters.
• More robust League-wide Revenue Sharing Program (increased pool from
approximately $150 million to $200 million) with creation of Industry Growth Fund to
improve the long-term revenue generating potential of the League and low-grossing
Clubs. Formation of active Revenue Sharing Oversight Committee on which NHLPA
will participate.
• New Player Discipline procedures and protocol incorporating Player appeal rights to
a neutral third-party arbitrator for both on-ice and off-ice discipline.
• Flexibility-related adjustments to Payroll Range System, including (in addition to
Salary/Cap Charge allocation in Player trades):
1. Lower Limit obligation without performance bonuses;
2. Elimination of Re-Entry Waivers;
3. Creation of Salary Cap exceptions for emergency roster situations/goaltender injuries;
4. Waiver exemptions for mid-season signings of Club’s own European Players;
5. Availability of Performance Bonus Cushion in every year of the CBA;
6. Creation of “interview period” for Unrestricted Free Agents.
• Various Player contract enhancements and protections, including:
1. Early activation of “No Move/No Trade” clauses in contract extensions;
2. Additional restrictions on Club “buy-out” rights of Player contracts;
3. Modified Waiver obligations for Clubs / enhanced Waiver opportunities for Players;
4. Standardization of reimbursements and benefits related to Player assignments (trades, loans, recalls, etc.);
5. Continued increases in League Minimum Salary and Per Diem;
6. Playoff Pool increased from $6.5 million to $13 million in Year 1; additional regular increases over the balance of the CBA term;
7. All minor league salary paid in USD;
8. Liberalized “Cap treatment” standards for Club initiatives benefitting Players, such as “parent-son” road trips; milestone awards/gifts; parental travel and lodging for attendance at EL Player games, Club provision of various types of “professional development”-type services for Players, etc.
• Player “Working Condition” improvements, including:
1. Ice-time restrictions and mandatory “days off” requirements during Training Camp;
2. Club practice schedule and “days off” requirements during the Regular Season;
3. Extended “Christmas Break” (i.e., December 24-26 “days off” for all purposes);
4. Mandatory facility standards for Visiting Teams relating to training/medical supplies, workout equipment and dressing room standards/supplies;
5. Implementation of “best practices” and continued League initiatives to ensure optimal ice conditions;
6. Tighter restrictions/regulation of Club off-season conditioning requirements and Club Conditioning Camp;
7. Establishment of annual Orientation and Development Program for Rookies/First Year Players.
• New CBA Article devoted exclusively to Player Health and Safety measures and
covering such matters as:
1. The establishment of a Joint NHL/NHLPA Health and Safety Committee with equal representation from the NHL and the NHLPA;
2. The establishment of “Standard of Care” and “Professional Duty” obligations owing from team health care professionals to Players;
3. The establishment of minimum requirements for “health management” staffing and resources;
4. The establishment of standards for the creation, updating and maintenance of Electronic Medical Records for Players;
5. Improvements to Second Medical Opinion procedures and protocol and Fitness to Play determinations;
6. Implementation of additional steps and safeguards to monitor the use (and possible misuse) of prescription medication by Players.
7. Increased flexibility for Players for rehabilitation of injuries during the offseason.
• Elimination of NHLPA “Guarantee” of Escrow shortfall and increased NHLPA
discretion to determine in-season Escrow Rates.
• Completion of expert third-party review of SABH Program and commitment to make
recommended modifications and improvements, as appropriate.
• Improvements to existing Performance Enhancing Substances Program, including:
1. Expansion of Prohibited Substances List to include illegal stimulants;
2. The establishment of testing protocol for HGH;
3. Varied forms and times of testing throughout the year;
4. The establishment of protocol for “reasonable cause testing”;
5. Incorporation of agreed-upon appeal procedures from “positive” test results;
6. Commitment to work with the AHL and the PHPA to expand Program to cover AHL Players.
• Joint (NHL/NHLPA) Committees:
1. Formation of new “Owner-Player Relations Committee,” with broad-based participation from Owners and Players intended to foster and establish better understanding and stronger working relationships.
2. Formation of new “Revenue Sharing Oversight Committee” to oversee the operation of the Revenue Sharing System.
3. Formation of new “Joint Health and Safety Committee” to make recommendations to the NHL and the NHLPA on Player Health and Safety matters.
4. Formation of new “NHL/NHLPA Equipment Working Group” to study, promulgate and enforce minimum standards for protective equipment utilized by NHL Players.
5. Refined and enhanced role for “Player/Club Competition Committee” (CBA Article 22) with greater consultation and interaction with the NHL General Managers’ Committee.
6. The “NHL/NHLPA Joint Owner-Player Broadcasting/Marketing Committee” (CBA Article 32) will be reconstituted to consult and establish policy on League broadcasting and marketing matters, as well as other League business functions and initiatives.
7. The NHL/NHLPA International Committee (CBA Article 24) will be charged with jointly identifying, creating, exploiting and managing new international business opportunities involving NHL Players, in which the NHL and NHLPA will participate as 50-50 partners. The NHL/NHLPA International Committee shall also have an advisory role in planning and executing NHL events conducted outside of North America.
• Players provided access to NHL.com platform for their individual Player websites
and social media.
• Implementation of a weighted Draft Lottery in which all non-Playoff teams compete
for opportunity to choose first overall in the annual Draft.
• Exclusive negotiating rights window for European Draftees extended to one period
covering four years, instead of two periods covering two years each.
• Modification to “Four-Recall Rule” to remove limitation on “number of transactions”
following the Trade Deadline; replace with limitations on the total number of Recalls
on roster at any one time after the Trade Deadline.
• Updated and improved Grievance Arbitration process and procedure.
• Enhanced access to Game Tickets for Visiting Team Players and NHLPA.
• NHLPA representatives to be provided reasonable access to Club facilities and
Players at reasonable times.NEW YORK -- It sometimes seems that getting the NHL and its players on the same page schedulewise is like herding cats.
When the two sides broke around 1 a.m. ET Thursday after a daylong session that saw the NHLPA allow a self-imposed deadline to file a disclaimer of interest pass, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman told reporters a federal mediator asked the two sides to return to the table at 10 a.m. Thursday.
Yet the NHLPA had planned a conference call to update its membership for Thursday morning, so the two sides won’t be getting back together until later in the day.
Still outstanding are three key issues, although sources on both sides of the dispute indicate they are not the only issues that stand between the league and a return to the ice.
Player pensions and how they are funded: Bettman explained that the issue is complex while acknowledging the issue is important to the players.
Salary cap for the 2013-14 season: The league is holding firm to its desire for a $60 million cap, down from a prorated $70.2 million this season. The league wants to protect the salary cap minimum for smaller-market teams (the floor would be $44 million), while the players would like to see the cap higher, about $65 million, to help the flood of free agents who will hit the market next summer, even though that has the potential to drive up player escrow pending revenues. The players are not seeking a cap on escrow, though. Also, the NHL upped its compliance buyout offer to two per team (up from one) prior to the 2013-14 season to help teams get under the year two cap. Buyouts still count against the players’ share but not against the team’s salary cap.
Cap on contract length: This has been a major issue for the league and players, although the owners did move off their "hill on which they will die" demands for five-year limits on contracts for players -- six if the player being signed is already with the signing team -- in their last proposal, moving to six, plus the extra year for signing their own players. The players don’t believe there should be any term limits.