
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Matt Duchene had a goal and three assists as the Columbus Blue Jackets defeated the host Tampa Bay Lightning 5-1 Friday night, taking a stunning 2-0 lead in an Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.
Tampa Bay lost each of the first two games of the best-of-seven series at home after tying the NHL single-season record for wins (62). Nikita Kucherov, who led the NHL with 128 points this season, was held pointless and had just three shots on goal.
Kucherov's frustration was apparent, as he was assessed a minor penalty for tripping, a major penalty for boarding and a game misconduct for an incident involving Columbus' Markus Nutivaara with 4:26 remaining.
The Lightning star will have a hearing Saturday with the NHL's department of player safety to discuss that hit. Per the NHL, boarding is the grounds on which the league is considering additional discipline -- which could include a suspension.
Islanders 3, Penguins 1
Jordan Eberle and Josh Bailey scored fewer than four minutes apart in the third period of Game 2 of the Eastern Conference quarterfinals for New York, which beat Pittsburgh in Uniondale, N.Y.
The Islanders, who have home-ice advantage for the first time since 1988, hold a 2-0 series lead for the first time since they swept the Edmonton Oilers in the 1983 Stanley Cup. Among NHL, NBA and MLB teams, only baseball's Montreal Expos/Washington Nationals and Pittsburgh Pirates have gone longer without holding a 2-0 series lead.
The Penguins are down 0-2 in a series for the first time since being swept by the Boston Bruins in the 2013 Eastern Conference finals.
Blues 4, Jets 3
Ryan O'Reilly's early-third-period goal was the game-winner as visiting St. Louis beat Winnipeg to claim both road games in the Manitoba capital and stake a 2-0 lead in their opening-round Western Conference playoff series.
With the score tied in the third period in a back-and-forth affair, O'Reilly raced up the ice and used the defenseman as a screen when he shot from the right faceoff dot and hit the mark on the stick side at the 3:46 mark of the final frame. Taking a lead for the third time was the charm for the Blues.
Oskar Sundqvist scored twice for St. Louis, which also got a goal from Patrick Maroon. Patrik Laine, Mark Scheifele and Blake Wheeler scored for Winnipeg.
Knights 5, Sharks 3
Max Pacioretty had a goal and an assist, and William Karlsson and Colin Miller each scored short-handed goals to lead Vegas past host San Jose to even their first-round Western Conference playoff series at 1-1.
Mark Stone and Cody Eakin also scored goals, and Paul Stastny added two assists for Vegas. Marc-Andre Fleury finished with 34 saves for his 76th career playoff win, one behind Mike Vernon for seventh all-time.
Logan Couture had a goal and an assist, Joe Thornton and Tomas Hertl also scored goals, and Erik Karlsson had two assists for San Jose, which finished just 1-for-8 on the power play. Aaron Dell, who replaced Martin Jones at the 6:39 mark of the first period, wound up with 14 saves.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
The New Jersey Devils won the NHL draft lottery on Tuesday night for the second time in three years.
New Jersey had an 11.5 percent chance to win the top pick. The franchise also picked first in 1979, as the Colorado Rockies, when the initial selection was Rob Ramage, and in 2017, when the choice was Nico Hischier.
The New York Rangers drew the second pick in this year's draft, followed by the Chicago Blackhawks.
The Rangers were most likely to pick No. 6 before the lottery, which turned in their favor. The same could be said for the Blackhawks, who were in the No. 12 spot before their improbable jump into the top three picks of the lottery.
The third pick has altered the course of the Blackhawks in the past as they have selected players such as Jonathan Toews (2006), Ed Olczyk (1984) and Denis Savard (1980) at that spot.
The draft will take place June 21-22 at Rogers Arena in Vancouver. The NHL Combine is slated for May 27-June 1 in Buffalo.
The order of selection for the first 15 picks:
1. New Jersey Devils
2. New York Rangers
3. Chicago Blackhawks
4. Colorado Avalanche (from Ottawa Senators)
5. Los Angeles Kings
6. Detroit Red Wings
7. Buffalo Sabres
8. Edmonton Oilers
9. Anaheim Ducks
10. Vancouver Canucks
11. Philadelphia Flyers
12. Minnesota Wild
13. Florida Panthers
14. Arizona Coyotes
15. Montreal Canadiens
The remaining positions in the first round will be determined by the playoffs.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
NORTH ANDOVER, Mass. — A former NHL star is apologizing for crossing a picket line to shop at a Massachusetts supermarket where workers are on strike.
Former Boston Bruins and Colorado Avalanche defenseman Ray Bourque was caught on video exiting a North Andover Stop & Shop on Monday as a worker said "Shame on you."
Thousands of Stop & Shop workers at 240 stores in Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island went on strike last week over what they say is an unfair contract proposal.
Bourque, a 22-year member of the NHL players' union, apologized on Twitter .
He said he had a "medical condition that I was preparing for" and "mistakenly crossed the picket line." He promised to walk the picket line in solidarity with Stop & Shop workers once his medical issue is resolved.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Toronto Maple Leafs center Nazem Kadri on Sunday was offered an in-person hearing by the NHL Department of Player Safety following a major penalty assessed Saturday in Game 2 of a first-round playoff series against the Boston Bruins.
That's a signal that Kadri, 28, could be facing a long suspension for cross-checking Boston forward Jake DeBrusk with 5:57 left in the game. According to the NHL.com, the NHL/NHLPA collective bargaining agreement calls for a player to be offered an in-person hearing if he faces a suspension of six games or more.
In 2018, Kadri was suspended three games for boarding Bruins forward Tommy Wingels in Game 1 of a first-round series. A 10-year NHL veteran, all with Toronto, Kadri has been suspended four times in his career.
The Bruins won the game 4-1 to tie the best-of-7 series at 1-1. Game 3 is scheduled for Monday in Toronto.
--Nikita Gusev, the reigning MVP of the Kontinental Hockey League, signed a one-year, entry-level contract with the Vegas Golden Knights and is expected to practice with the team on Monday.
Gusev, 26, has been on the roster of SKA St. Petersburg since the 2015-16 season. He led the league in scoring this season with 82 points (17 goals, 65 assists). He was released from his contract this week after SKA St. Petersburg was eliminated in the KHL conference finals.
The Tampa Bay Lightning drafted him in the seventh round of the 2012 NHL Draft. Vegas acquired his rights in a trade with Tampa Bay during the 2017 NHL Expansion Draft.
--The Colorado Avalanche announced the team has signed 2019 Hobey Baker Award winner Cale Makar to a three-year, entry-level contract.
The 20-year-old defenseman from the University of Massachusetts will join the Avalanche immediately for their first-round playoff series against the Calgary Flames. The series is tied at 1-1 and resumes Monday night in Colorado.
Makar, the No. 4 overall pick in the 2017 NHL Draft, just completed his sophomore season. He helped the Minutemen reach the NCAA Frozen Four title game and became the school's first player to win the Hobey Baker Award, college hockey's top individual prize.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
DENVER — Welcome back to the playoffs , New York Islanders. Same goes for you, St. Louis, Dallas, Carolina and Calgary.
All five teams are returning to the postseason after at least one season off (or nine, for the Hurricanes). It's a familiar number: In 12 of the last 14 seasons, the playoff lineup has included at least five teams that hadn't been there one year earlier.
Same numbers apply as always: Four series wins to hoist the Stanley Cup and 16 victories in total. It's a clean slate, too. Just ask Flames coach Bill Peters, whose team amassed 107 points and whose top scorer, Johnny Gaudreau, accumulated 99 points.
"I looked at the numbers today — Johnny has zero points and we have zero wins," Peters cracked. "We're all winless. We're all tied."
Remember, no lead is safe. There were an NHL-best 138 multi-goal comeback victories during the regular season.
A by-the-numbers glance — with a huge assist to NHL research — heading into a postseason where the Washington Capitals will try to defend their title under a new coach (Todd Reirden) with their old one (Barry Trotz) is back in the running with the Islanders:
7,664 — Goals scored in the regular season, the most in league history.
365 — Shots by Avalanche forward Nathan MacKinnon, who led the league.
325 — Goals scored by Tampa Bay , the most by a team in 23 years.
246 — Shots by Tampa Bay forward Nikita Kucherov, who led the league in points with 128.
97 — Amount of hat tricks this season. It's tied for 11th-most in NHL history.
62 — Wins by the Lightning, tying the '95-96 Red Wings for most in a season.
49 — Percent of games decided in regulation by a one-goal margin or two with an empty-netter.
35-4-1 — Record when the Nashville Predators scored the first goal of the game this season.
33 — Age of Alex Ovechkin, who became the first player in 44 years to lead the NHL in goals at age 33 or older. The last one to do so was Phil Esposito, who had 61 at 33 in 1974-75.
22-14 — Margin Vegas outscored San Jose in a second-round matchup last season before the Golden Knights advanced.
18-10 — Margin Vegas outscored first-round opponent San Jose in the regular season.
21 — Times out of 27 seasons the Sharks have reached the postseason since coming into the league in '91-92.
16 — Game-winning playoff goals for 39-year-old Toronto forward Patrick Marleau.
12 — Years since the league had six players reach 100 points. The list includes three players in the postseason: Kucherov, Brad Marchand of Boston and Sidney Crosby of Pittsburgh. Connor McDavid and Leon Draisaitl of Edmonton, and Patrick Kane of Chicago were the other three.
10 — Times a team has captured the top seed in the conference after missing the playoffs the prior season. Calgary accomplished that, going from 84 points in '17-18 to 107 this season.
7ish — Seasons that Columbus coach John Tortorella coached the Lightning, the first-round opponent of the Blue Jackets. He helped Tampa Bay to a Stanley Cup title in '03-04.
6-foot-7 — Height of Dallas goaltender Ben Bishop, who had a 1.98 goals-against average.
5 — Number of times the Islanders-Penguins have met in the playoffs. The other years were '75, '82, '93 and '13.
3 — Number of playoff teams that were at one point near the bottom of the standings after 15 games. The list includes the St. Louis (31st place on Jan. 2), Vegas (30th on Nov. 17) and Pittsburgh (29th on Nov. 20).
2 — Number of times the Golden Knights have been in the postseason since coming into the league for the '17-18 season.
2 — Number of times Carolina has been in the postseason since hoisting the Stanley Cup in '05-06.
1 — Big screen set up outside the arena for Penguins fans to watch the Crosby & Co. at home games.
Countless — Number of epic calls by longtime Canadian broadcaster Bob Cole, who called his last game for "Hockey Night in Canada" to cap a 50-year run behind the microphone.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Defenseman Slava Voynov has been suspended for the 2019-20 season due to "unacceptable off-ice conduct," the NHL announced Tuesday.
Voynov, 29, recently applied for reinstatement to the NHL. He was indefinitely suspended in October 2014 after being arrested following an altercation with his wife. Police responded to Voynov's house in Redondo Beach, Calif., and said he punched, kicked and choked his wife. Voynov, who was a member of the Los Angeles Kings at the time, entered a no-contest plea in July 2015.
Last July, a conviction in that case was dismissed by a Los Angeles judge. The Kings terminated Voynov's six-year, $25 million contract after his arrest and placed him on their voluntary retired list.
"Today's ruling, while tailored to the specific facts of this case and the individuals involved, is necessary and consistent with the NHL's strongly-held policy that it cannot and will not tolerate this and similar types of conduct, particularly as directed at a spouse, domestic partner or family member," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said in a statement.
--Victor Hedman will return to the lineup for the Tampa Bay Lightning when they open the Stanley Cup Playoffs on Wednesday at home against the Columbus Blue Jackets.
"He's playing," coach Jon Cooper said, per NHL.com. "Good to go."
Hedman, the reigning Norris Trophy winner, missed the regular season's final four games with an upper-body injury. He practiced both Monday and Tuesday. In 70 games this season, he scored 54 points (12 goals, 42 assists).
--Mike Lange, the longtime broadcaster for the Pittsburgh Penguins, will miss the start of the playoffs after suffering an adverse reaction to medication for pneumonia.
The 71-year-old radio voice of the Penguins is resting at home after a brief hospitalization last week, according to a statement from the team. Lange, who is in his 44th season with the team, will phone into the broadcast on WXDX-FM (105.9) and the Penguins Radio Network during the first intermission of Game 1.
Pittsburgh opens the postseason Wednesday on the road against the New York Islanders.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
Connor McDavid knows better than to risk making end-of-season NHL award projections.
Through no fault of his own, the Edmonton Oilers captain was not included among last year's three MVP candidates, causing a stir back home. So McDavid understandably deferred when recently asked to list his Hart Trophy front-runners this year.
"After last year, I'm not commenting," McDavid said, chuckling. "I have no idea who will win it at all."
McDavid, who won the Hart in 2017 after leading the Oilers to their first playoff berth in 11 years, isn't likely to be included among this year's finalists even though he entered the final week of the season second in the league with 115 points. Trouble is, the Oilers have already been eliminated from playoff contention, and McDavid and everyone else are being overshadowed by the numbers Nikita Kucherov is putting up with the President's Trophy-clinching Tampa Bay Lightning.
With 125 points through 80 games, Kucherov has already matched Joe Thornton's league-leading total in 2005-06. The highest total after that is Jaromir Jagr's 127 points in 1998-99, and the last player to top 130 points was Mario Lemieux, who had 161 in 1995-96.
"It's not at all surprising. He was unbelievable last year, and seemed to get no recognition for it," McDavid said, noting how Kucherov finished third in the NHL with 100 points last season. "They're a team that scores a lot of goals. And he's in on most of them. It's pretty impressive."
Kucherov is tied for the Lightning lead with seven game-winning goals and part of a team that became only the NHL's third to win 60 or more games. Kucherov has also led the points race since Dec. 28, and gone no more than two games without registering a point this season.
That's not to say there aren't others worthy of mention.
Calgary's Johnny Gaudreau, with a career-best 97 points already, has played a key role in helping the Flames clinch their first division title in 13 years.
Though Sidney Crosby's production has tailed off with just three assists in Pittsburgh's past nine games, the Penguins could have been in jeopardy of missing the playoffs for the first time since 2006 if not for their captain's team-leading 95 points. Chicago's Patrick Kane, who enjoyed a 20-game point streak, would deserve consideration if not for the Blackhawks sitting last in the Central Division.
Former NHL executive-turned broadcaster Brian Burke said it's difficult to consider anyone ahead of Kucherov, suggesting he has essentially "lapped the field."
"You'd have to be statistically such an aberration, such a unicorn, that voters would have no choice but to say, 'OK, that's the guy,'" Burke said.
"But that's not the case where you've got Kucherov. So there's no unicorns," Burke added. "You've already got a guy who's blowing everyone away."
That said, here is The Associated Press list of end-of-season award contenders:
HART (MVP)
In the conversation: Crosby, Gaudreau, Kucherov and Brad Marchand (Boston).
Who should win: Kucherov.
Comment: To quote Burke: "There's no unicorns."
NORRIS (Top defenseman)
In the conversation: Brent Burns (San Jose), John Carlson (Washington), Mark Giordano (Calgary), Victor Hedman (Tampa Bay).
Who should win: Giordano.
Comment: A career-best season for a captain on the Pacific Division's top team.
VEZINA (Top goalie)
In the conversation: Ben Bishop (Dallas), Darcy Kuemper (Arizona), Carey Price (Montreal) Pekka Rinne (Nashville) and Andrei Vasilevskiy (Tampa Bay).
Who should win: Vasilevskiy.
Comment: Tightest race to call and could include Islanders' tandem of Robin Lehner and Thomas Greiss, though each eliminate each other by splitting starts.
SELKE (Top defensive forward)
In the conversation: Aleksander Barkov (Florida), Patrice Bergeron (Boston), Sean Couturier (Philadelphia), Mark Stone (Vegas), Ryan O'Reilly (St. Louis).
Who should win: Stone.
Comment: Before being traded to Vegas, Stone had an exceptional plus-13 rating on a Senators team that has currently allowed an NHL-worst 285 goals.
CALDER (Top rookie)
In the conversation: Rasmus Dahlin (Buffalo), Andreas Johnsson (Toronto), Elias Pettersson (Vancouver) and Brady Tkachuk (Ottawa).
Who should win: Pettersson.
Comment: Pettersson leads rookie forwards in averaging 18:20 of ice time per game.
JACK ADAMS (Top coach)
In the conversation: Craig Berube (St. Louis), Jon Cooper (Tampa Bay), Bill Peters (Calgary), Barry Trotz (Islanders).
Who should win: Cooper.
Comment: Though Berube and Trotz deserve consideration, it is difficult to overlook the job Cooper's done with a 60-win team.
THEY SAID IT
Blue Jackets John Tortorella wasn't initially in the mood to divulge what was discussed during a team meeting after a 4-1 loss at Edmonton on March 21 that extended Columbus' skid to 0-2-1.
"That's none of your business," he responded. Pressed further, given how Columbus rebounded to win its next five, Tortorella said: "We (stunk) against Edmonton. I mean it was pitiful against Edmonton, so we tried to clean some things up."
LEADERS (through Tuesday)
Goals: Alex Ovechkin (Washington), 51; Power-play goals: Brayden Point (Tampa Bay), 20; Goals by defenseman: Morgan Rielly (Toronto), 20; Shutouts: Sergei Bobrovsky (Columbus), 9. Goals-against average: Jordan Binnington (St. Louis), 1.85; Save percentage: Ben Bishop (Dallas), .933.
GAME OF THE WEEK
The Central Division title and the Western Conference's final playoff berth could be on the line in one of the final games on the regular-season schedule Saturday when Winnipeg travels to face Arizona.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Justin Faulk scored the tiebreaking goal in the second period, and the Carolina Hurricanes went on to wrap up a playoff spot for the first time in a decade by defeating the visiting New Jersey Devils 3-1 in the regular-season home finale Thursday night in Raleigh, N.C.
Nino Niederreiter's goal with 3:25 remaining gave the Hurricanes a two-goal cushion. Fans chanted, "We want playoffs," and that's what they'll get.
The Hurricanes have secured a spot in the postseason for the first time since 2009. That ends the longest active drought without a playoff appearance for any NHL team.
Warren Foegele tallied the first goal for the Hurricanes. Carolina goalie Petr Mrazek stopped 36 shots, including 16 in the third period. Andy Greene tallied for New Jersey.
Avalanche 3, Jets 2 (OT)
Erik Johnson scored 1:49 into overtime, and Colorado rallied to clinch a playoff berth with a win over visiting Winnipeg.
Tyson Barrie and Carl Soderberg also scored and Philipp Grubauer had 34 saves for the Avalanche. Colorado came in needing one point but got a pair to earn the last postseason spot in the Western Conference.
The Avalanche, with 90 points, can move up to the first wild card with a win in San Jose on Saturday night and two regulation losses by Dallas.
Penguins 4, Red Wings 1
Phil Kessel scored twice and had an assist, and host Pittsburgh clinched a playoff spot with a win over Detroit.
Sidney Crosby added a goal and two assists to reach 98 points, and Jake Guentzel scored his 39th goal for Pittsburgh. The Penguins increased their run of playoff appearances to 13 seasons, the longest current streak in the NHL and the longest in Penguins history.
Pittsburgh goaltender Matt Murray, in his career-high 10th straight start, made 33 saves.
Lightning 3, Maple Leafs 1
Alex Killorn scored the go-ahead goal at 14:12 of the third period, and visiting Tampa Bay went on to defeat Toronto to move closer to NHL history.
If the Lightning (61-16-4, 126 points) can win at Boston on Saturday in their regular-season finale, they would equal the record of 62 wins for a season set by the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings.
Killorn notched his 18th goal of the season from the right circle on a pass from the left circle by Steven Stamkos as the Lightning took advantage of a Maple Leafs turnover. Stamkos also scored a goal to match his career best for a season at 97 points.
Sharks 3, Oilers 2
Brent Burns collected a goal and an assist to reach the 80-point mark in a season for the first time in his career and pace visiting San Jose to a victory over Edmonton.
Burns is just the sixth player in NHL history and second defenseman to record his first 80-point season at the age of 34 or older.
San Jose will face the Colorado Avalanche on Saturday to close out the regular season before having home-ice advantage in a series with the Vegas Golden Knights to kick off the Stanley Cup playoffs.
Capitals 2, Canadiens 1
Nic Dowd scored the tiebreaking goal early in the second period, and goalie Braden Holtby made 33 saves as Washington clinched the Metropolitan Division title with a victory over visiting Montreal.
Washington, which won the Stanley Cup last season for the first time in franchise history, captured its fourth consecutive Metropolitan Division title.
The Capitals now have 104 points while the New York Islanders can finish with no more than 103. Meanwhile, despite the loss, Montreal remains in the wild-card hunt.
Predators 3, Canucks 2
Ryan Johansen's goal with 20.4 seconds left in regulation lifted Nashville to a comeback, home-ice victory over Vancouver.
The Predators (46-29-6, 98 points) took a one-point edge in the Central Division, as Winnipeg's overtime loss to Colorado left the Jets at 97 points. The St. Louis Blues are also at 97 points after beating Philadelphia. Each of the three teams has one game remaining.
The Canucks took their first loss in four games.
Blues 7, Flyers 3
Alexander Steen had two goals and an assist as St. Louis made franchise history while scoring five times within the first 10 minutes in a win over Philadelphia.
Alex Pietrangelo recorded three assists and Vladimir Tarasenko added two for the Blues. Amid an 8-1-2 stretch, St. Louis concludes the regular season at home against Vancouver on Saturday.
Philadelphia enters its finale Saturday at home versus Carolina a loser in six of seven. However, the Flyers didn't make it easy on St. Louis, which, according to the team, set a club record for the quickest five goals (9:41) to open a regular-season game -- topping the previous mark of 13:45 from Jan. 3, 1970.
Bruins 3, Wild 0
Joakim Nordstrom, David Pastrnak and Zach Senyshyn each scored and Jaroslav Halak was perfect in net as visiting Boston skated to a victory over Minnesota.
Halak made 26 saves for his fifth shutout of the season for the Bruins, who went into the game having clinched second place in the Atlantic Division and will face the Toronto Maple Leafs in the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs.
Minnesota, which will miss the playoffs for the first time since 2012, will face the Dallas Stars on Saturday to close out a disappointing campaign.
Coyotes 4, Golden Knights 1
Derek Stepan scored two goals, and Darcy Kuemper made 37 saves to lead Arizona over host Vegas.
Despite the win, the Coyotes were eliminated from the playoff contention when Colorado defeated Winnipeg in overtime earlier Thursday night to clinch the final postseason berth in the Western Conference.
It's the seventh straight year that Arizona has missed the playoffs.
Islanders 2, Panthers 1 (SO)
Brock Nelson scored in regulation and had the only goal in four rounds of a shootout as New York defeated host Florida.
Thomas Greiss stopped 29 shots through regulation and overtime and was brilliant in the shootout to earn the win.
The Islanders already have clinched their first playoff berth since 2016. With one game left in the regular season, they need just one more point or a Pittsburgh Penguins loss to assure themselves of home ice in the first round of the postseason.
Sabres 5, Senators 2
Jack Eichel had a goal and two assists as Buffalo snapped an eight-game losing streak with a win against visiting Ottawa.
Victor Olofsson, Kyle Okposo, Sam Reinhart and Jason Pominville also scored for the Sabres, who won for just the second time in their past 17 games (2-13-2). Carter Hutton made 21 saves and held the Senators scoreless over the final two periods.
The Sabres, who went 2-for-3 on the power play, spoiled the debut of Ottawa goalie Joey Daccord, who earlier this week became the first Arizona State player to sign an NHL contract. Daccord stopped 35 of 40 shots.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
TORONTO — The NHL has suspended Toronto Maple Leafs forward Nazem Kadri for the rest of the first round of the playoffs for cross-checking Boston Bruins winger Jake DeBrusk in the head.
The decision was announced Monday, shortly before Game 3 of the best-of-seven series that is knotted 1-1.
Kadri hit DeBrusk in the third period of Boston's 4-1 victory Saturday. He was offered an in-person hearing by the NHL, meaning the league had the option to suspend him for more than five games.
It is the fifth suspension of Kadri's career. He was banned three games for boarding in the opener of last year's series with the Bruins and has had seven previous hearings with the NHL since 2013. All four of his previous suspensions involved contact with an opponent's head.
"He's obviously gritty, a guy who does it right, a big part of the team," Toronto star Auston Matthews told The Canadian Press before Game 3. "We need other people to step up. We've lost him before. We feel like depth on this team is something we have and we can take advantage of."
Winger William Nylander was moved to Kadri's place at center on Toronto's third line between Patrick Marleau and Connor Brown; he shifted to the middle earlier this season when Kadri was out injured.
"He's got to play hard," coach Mike Babcock said of Nylander. "It's real simple. The team that played the hardest won Game 1. The team that played the hardest won Game 2. He's got to compete at a high level with and without the puck."
Nylander, who had just seven goals in 54 games following a contract dispute that stretched into December, scored in Toronto's 4-1 victory in Game 1.
Notes: Bruins coach Bruce Cassidy said DeBrusk and defenseman Torey Krug, who did not return to Saturday's game after a big hit by Jake Muzzin, would both play Monday.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
Excuse Derick Brassard for having a little difficulty finding his bearings after the veteran center took an unorthodox cross-country route in reaching the NHL playoffs.
Starting the season with Pittsburgh, Brassard was traded to Florida and spent 10 games with the Panthers before landing in Colorado in time to help the Avalanche's late-season surge to clinch the Western Conference's eighth and final playoff berth. Brassard is also re-adjusting to center after playing on the wing in Florida.
"It's been kind of a weird season for me personally. By coming here, I had to try to adjust quickly," Brassard said Monday as Colorado prepares for a first-round matchup against Calgary. "I feel like I'm fitting in really well. I wish I could chip in a little more. I think it's been three or four games, since I'm back to my normal position."
Brassard, who has four goals in 20 games for Colorado, was one of 32 players involved in 20 deals struck at the NHL trade deadline on Feb. 25.
Brassard's acquisition — Colorado gave up a third-round draft pick — wasn't the most notable of the day. And yet it was a reflection of numerous teams' approach to addressing needs before making a final playoff push and beyond.
The Winnipeg Jets led the way in completing six trades, including acquiring veteran center Kevin Hayes from the New York Rangers. Central Division rival Nashville responded by acquiring forwards Mikael Granlund from Minnesota and Wayne Simmonds from Philadelphia. Vegas struck what was the most impressive deal by landing forward Mark Stone in a multiplayer trade with Ottawa.
The trades don't include various deals struck in the days leading up to the deadline, such as Columbus' addition of Matt Duchene and Ryan Dzingel in separate swaps with Ottawa.
And while other teams were wheeling and dealing, teams such as Presidents' Trophy-winning Tampa Bay elected to stand pat. The Lightning roster was already deep and talented at all positions.
"Well, I think if I was as the GM in Tampa, I'd probably stand pat, too," former NHL executive turned broadcaster Brian Burke said. "They're the class of the league this year."
In the end, Burke wondered how many of the trades will truly make the difference in determining the Stanley Cup champion.
"The trade deadline, so many mistakes are made," Burke said. "(You have) 15 teams making moves at the deadline, and there's (only) one parade."
Of the 16 playoff teams, only two — Pittsburgh and Colorado — were sitting outside the top eight spots in the conference standings on Feb. 25. Montreal dropped out in the East and Minnesota in the West.
The Jets' additions failed to push them ahead of the Predators in the race for the Central title, though they were enough to keep Winnipeg ahead of the late-charging S. Louis Blues. Winnipeg was a point behind Nashville on Feb. 25 and finished the season in the same position.
Jets general manager Kevin Cheveldayoff, however, believes his team is better prepared in opening the playoffs against St. Louis.
"They've meshed in," Cheveldayoff said of the newcomers.
"They've gone through the newness process," he added. "That's over. They're just like every one of us now."
In Nashville, the Predators believe they added leadership to the locker room and more of a hard-hitting presence on the ice in preparing to open against Dallas.
"Just seeing who we match up against in the playoffs, it's those heavier teams, bigger bodies and having guys up front who can handle the bigger D," defenseman Ryan Ellis said. "The moves we made made our team better."
In Columbus, the Blue Jackets went all in by adding to their roster rather than subtracting players such as goalie Sergei Bobrovsky and forward Artemi Panarin — both eligible to become unrestricted free agents this summer. Panarin led the team with 87 points, while Bobrovsky closed the season by going 10-3, including four shutouts.
Add in the likes of Duchene, Dzingel and defenseman Adam McQuaid, and the Blue Jackets believe they have the depth for a daunting first-round matchup against Tampa Bay.
"They've been through the trenches with us. They've been able to feel a part of this team, take ownership of this team and know their role within it," Blue Jackets captain Nick Foligno said. "You look at it, and we're four deep everywhere. Our defensive core is set. It just makes you feel more confident."
In Washington, the defending Stanley Cup champions benefited by adding forward Carl Hagelin and defenseman Nick Jensen.
Hagelin, a trusted two-way forward, had three goals and 11 points in 20 games with the Capitals after combining for just eight points in 38 games split between Pittsburgh and Los Angeles. Jensen's addition is even more important with defenseman Michal Kempny sidelined with a lower body injury.
"I think they kind of filled holes that maybe we had really well," defenseman Brooks Orpik said. "Even if Kemper didn't get injured, I think adding another good NHL guy was important for us."
___
AP Hockey Writer Stephen Whyno in Arlington, Virginia, and AP Sports Writer Pat Graham in Denver contributed to this report.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
The NHL has suspended defenseman Slava Voynov for the 2019-20 season and 2020 playoffs after determining he committed acts of domestic violence.
Commissioner Gary Bettman suspended Voynov on Tuesday for what the league called unacceptable off-ice conduct. The 29-year-old Russian could have his eligibility restored on July 1, 2020, based on good behavior.
Voynov was suspended indefinitely in October 2014 after being arrested for domestic abuse. He pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor, left the United States to go back to Russia and in July had the conviction dismissed by a judge in Los Angeles county.
Bettman said he determined after a league investigation and a March 21 hearing that Voynov engaged in acts of domestic violence against his wife.
Voynov's agent, Rolland Hedges, did not immediately return a voicemail and text message seeking comment.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Artemi Panarin scored the only goal in the shootout Friday night for the Columbus Blue Jackets, who clinched the last open NHL playoff spot by edging the host New York Rangers, 3-2.
With their sixth win in the last seven games, the Blue Jackets (46-31-4, 96 points) assured themselves of one of the wild-card berths in the Eastern Conference and eliminated the Montreal Canadiens (94 points) from contention.
The Blue Jackets are headed to the playoffs for the third straight season after making the postseason just twice in their first 15 seasons. They will enter the final day of the season as the second wild card, but they would move up to the first wild card if they beat the Ottawa Senators and the Carolina Hurricanes lose to the Philadelphia Flyers on Saturday.
Panarin's shootout tally capped an evening of roller-coaster emotions for the Blue Jackets, who trailed 1-0 after two before tying the game and going ahead in a span of a little more than 12 minutes in the third period on goals by Ryan Dzingel and Panarin -- only to see Pavel Buchnevich tie the game with seven seconds left in regulation.
Blackhawks 6, Stars 1
Patrick Kane scored twice, and Chicago got goals from five different players as it thumped visiting Dallas, keeping its Central Division rivals from clinching the first wild-card spot in the upcoming Stanley Cup playoffs.
The Stars (42-32-7, 91 points) have already sewn up a spot in the playoffs for the first time since 2016, but they need one point in their final game, at home on Saturday against Minnesota, to secure the seventh overall seed in the Western Conference.
Chicago (36-33-12, 84 points) was eliminated from the postseason on Tuesday and will miss the playoffs for a second straight season.
Ducks 5, Kings 2
Korbinian Holzer scored his first NHL goal in more than two years, and rookie Sam Steel also tallied as Anaheim concluded a disappointing season with a home-ice victory over Los Angeles.
John Gibson made 44 saves -- 20 of them in the third period -- for Anaheim.
While the 30 other teams will play on Saturday, the Ducks (35-37-10, 80 points) are the first club to finish their campaign. Anaheim will miss the Stanley Cup playoffs for the first time since 2011-12. The Kings (30-42-9, 69 points) will finish at the bottom of the Western Conference.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Tampa Bay Lightning, the NHL's best team, lost their first two playoff games at home to the Columbus Blue Jackets and are vulnerable without their top scorer for Game 3.
Winnipeg lost its first two at home, leaving the Jets fighting for their postseason relevance as that series shifts to St. Louis.
The Pittsburgh Penguins are loaded with stars who have years of playoff experience. The Pens are down 2-0 to the New York Islanders as their series moves to the Steel City.
So much for home-ice advantage and conventional thinking in these NHL playoffs.
The Blue Jackets have been in this heady position before in the postseason, just before they fell on their faces.
Now they have the Tampa Bay on the ropes and are enticingly closer to winning the first playoff series in franchise history. The series shifts to Columbus on Sunday night (7 p.m., NBCSN). The Lightning will be without 128-point scorer Nikita Kucherov , who was suspended for a game for boarding the Markus Nutivaara on Friday night.
Last year the Blue Jackets went up 2-0 in the first round against Washington on the road before the Capitals won four straight and rolled on a Stanley Cup championship. In other words, there's a lot of hockey left to the play in the series, and the Blue Jackets players know it all too well.
"I think we should still have a sour taste in our mouth from last year," said wing Cam Atkinson, who scored the first goal for Columbus in the 5-1 rout of Tampa Bay on Friday . "It's a series for a reason. They're obviously the best team in the league. We just can't take our foot off the gas pedal."
Columbus has risen to the occasion and hasn't backed down from their opponents.
"We're in a hole, we're in a tough position, but we are not going to quit," Lightning center Steven Stamkos said. "We have to take a page out of their book and go on the road and win a hockey game. We just have to focus on Game 3. It's tough, it just hasn't gone our way right now."
Or, as coach Jon Cooper put it: "This is a five-alarm fire."
Islanders at Penguins, New York leads series 2-0 (noon EDT, NBC).
During their current run of 13 consecutive playoff appearances, the Pittsburgh Penguins lost in the first round three times. They'll need to turn things around quickly to avoid a fourth.
Pittsburgh took its first lead in the series in the second period of Game 2 before the Islanders tied it minutes later and then pulled away in the third period for a 3-1 win.
The Penguins will look to regroup as they head home for the next two games. They know it's not an insurmountable deficit.
"It's the first team to win four games, not two," coach Mike Sullivan said when asked about his message to the team after Game 2. "We got to go back home, we got to control what we can. We got to win one game, and then we'll go from there."
The Islanders have held Jake Guentzel, who led the Penguins with 40 goals during the season, and star center Sidney Crosby (35 goals, 65 assists) off the scoresheet in the first two games.
Pittsburgh, sixth in the NHL in scoring during the season, has scored four times on 76 shots against an Islanders team that allowed the fewest goals in the league. After finishing fifth on the power play at 24.6 percent, the Penguins are 1 for 5 so far.
Jets at Blues, St. Louis leads series 2-0 (7:30 p.m. EDT, CNBC)
The Jets' confidence is not shaken after losing each of the first two games of the series by one goal.
"For the most part, we've played two pretty solid games," Winnipeg center Adam Lowry said after the Jets fell 4-3 on Friday night . "It comes down to a couple breaks. I feel like we're right there. I don't think we're frustrated. I don't think you can let that creep into this room."
Oskar Sundqvist scored twice, and Ryan O'Reilly broke the tie early in the third period to give the Blues the edge as the series shifts to St. Louis.
"They are going to give us their best game, Game 3 at home," Blues coach Craig Berube said. "And there's no reason to get too high. You've got to stay ready and you gotta play even better than we've played."
Jordan Binnington made 26 saves for St. Louis, becoming the second goalie in franchise history to win his first two playoff games.
Sharks at Golden Knights, series tied 1-1 (10 p.m. EDT, NBCSN)
Taking penalties against San Jose usually isn't the right recipe for success, especially with the Sharks' two potent power-play units led by dynamic defensemen Brent Burns and Erik Karlsson and a talented group of forwards.
 Vegas survived that in Game 2 and even came out ahead when the Sharks had the man advantage. The Golden Knights committed eight minor penalties that gave San Jose power plays, including one minute of five-on-three action in Game 2.
But Vegas got the better of the play in those situations, scoring two short-handed goals and allowing just one on the power play, which proved to be pivotal.
"It's hard to win this time of year if you don't win special teams," Sharks coach Peter DeBoer said.
San Jose is just 2 for 13 on the power play this series, with two goals allowed, a far cry from a unit that ranked sixth in the league in the regular season at 23.7%.
"I just didn't think we shot the puck enough — myself included," forward Logan Couture said. "Too many times, we'd pass. We've got to get back to shooting it."
___
Associated Press Sports writers Josh Dubow in San Jose, California; Vinay Cherwoo in New York; and Mark Didtler in Tampa, Florida, contributed to this report.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Viktor Arvidsson completed the comeback -- and set a franchise record in the process -- as host Nashville scored five unanswered goals to beat Chicago 5-2 on Saturday night and claim the top spot in the Central Division on the final night of the regular season.
The Predators (47-29-6, 100 points) will face the Dallas Stars in the opening round of the Stanley Cup playoffs. They are on a roll, having won eight of their last 11 games down the stretch to claim a second consecutive division crown.
Arvidsson -- with his 34th goal of the season, a new standard for a Predators skater -- broke a 2-2 deadlock with a power-play goal 3:33 into the third period. As the Predators rushed up the ice, Arvidsson received a cross-ice pass inside the blue line and wired a shot that ended up the game winner.
Late goals by Colton Sissons, his into an empty net, and Nick Bonino rounded out the scoring for Nashville, which received a 31-save performance from goalie Pekka Rinne.
Jets 4, Coyotes 2
Mark Scheifele and Kyle Connor collected a goal and an assist as visiting Winnipeg posted a win over Arizona in both teams' regular-season finale at Glendale, Ariz.
Nikolaj Ehlers and defenseman Jacob Trouba also tallied, and Connor Hellebuyck made 19 saves for the Jets (47-30-5, 99 points), who recorded just their second win in their last seven games (2-4-1).
Winnipeg, which finished second in the Central Division, will have home-ice advantage when it faces St. Louis in the first-round of the playoffs. Nashville's victory over Chicago earlier on Saturday ended the Jets' bid to claim the Central title.
Blues 3, Canucks 2 (SO)
Ryan O'Reilly and David Perron scored goals in a shootout as host St. Louis beat Vancouver.
The Blues (45-28-9, 99 points) briefly moved into first place in the Central Division, but the Predators wound up as division winners for the second straight season after defeating Chicago. St. Louis was in last place in the NHL on Jan. 3 but finished in third and has become the hottest team in the league since then. They will face second-place Winnipeg (47-30-5, 99 points) in the first round of the playoffs.
The Canucks, who will miss the playoffs for the fourth straight year, completed 2018-19 with a 35-36-11 mark for 81 points.
Lightning 6, Bruins 3
Steven Stamkos and Nikita Kucherov each scored to reach career milestones as visiting Tampa Bay matched an NHL record with their 62nd victory, a win over Boston.
The Presidents' Trophy-winning Lightning (62-16-4, 128 points) equaled the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings' mark for single-season wins. They also posted the fourth-most points ever in a season and became the second team in league history to win 30 road games.
While the Lightning rested key performers Brayden Point and goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy, Stamkos posted his 45th goal for a career-high 98th point, and Kucherov scored his personal-best 41st goal as the visitors scored four straight to erase a 2-0 deficit. Kucherov, who added an assist, finished with an NHL-leading 128 regular-season points -- the most by a Russian-born player in league history.
Canadiens 6, Maples Leafs 5 (SO)
Ryan Poehling scored three goals in regulation, including the tying goal in the third period in his NHL debut, then added the winner in a shootout as Montreal ended its season by defeating visiting Toronto.
Jordan Weal and Andrew Shaw each had a goal and an assist for the Canadiens, who had been eliminated from the playoffs. Nicolas Deslauriers and Artturi Lehkonen each added two assists.
Zach Hyman had a goal and an assist for Toronto. Jake Gardiner, Trevor Moore, William Nylander and Kasperi Kapanen also scored for the Maple Leafs, who will face the Boston Bruins in the first round of the playoffs.
Blue Jackets 6, Senators 2
Pierre-Luc Dubois scored twice as Columbus defeated host Ottawa in the regular-season finale.
The Blue Jackets, who had already clinched one of the Eastern Conference's two wild-card playoff berths, hoped to gain the top wild-card slot and avoid Tampa Bay in the first round of the postseason. But those hopes were dashed when Carolina beat Philadelphia to edge the Blue Jackets (47-31-4, 98 points) by one point in the standings.
Markus Nutivaara, Alexandre Texier, Oliver Bjorkstrand and Riley Nash also scored for the Blue Jackets, and goaltender Joonas Korpisalo made 27 saves.
Sabers 7, Red Wings 1
Jeff Skinner scored twice to reach the 40-goal mark and Buffalo closed out its season with a thumping of host Detroit.
Rasmus Dahlin supplied a goal and an assist. Sam Reinhart, Conor Sheary, Zemgus Girgensons and Brandon Montour also scored for the Sabres (33-39-10, 76 points). Linus Ullmark made 23 saves.
Skinner reached the 40-goal mark for the first time in his nine-year career. He also had 32 even-strength goals this season. That gave him the most even-strength goals by a Sabre since Alexander Mogilny (49) in the 1992-93 season.
Devils 4, Panthers 3 (OT)
Travis Zajac scored a power-play goal 56 seconds into overtime as New Jersey defeated host Florida.
Nathan Bastian, a 21-year-old who was New Jersey's second-round pick in 2016, scored twice for the Devils and now has three career goals in seven NHL games. Pavel Zacha scored New Jersey's other goal, and 22-year-old rookie Mackenzie Blackwood made 37 saves.
The Panthers got goals from Jonathan Huberdeau and Mike Hoffman in the final four minutes to send the game to overtime. Aleksander Barkov also scored for the Panthers. It marked his 35th goal of the season, and he set the franchise record with his 95th point to break the previous record set by Pavel Bure (94) in the 1999-2000 season.
Hurricanes 4, Flyers 3
Jordan Staal scored the go-ahead goal in the second period as visiting Carolina completed a season sweep of Philadelphia.
Staal joined Teuvo Teravainen in collecting a goal and assist for the Hurricanes (46-29-7, 99 points), who clinched the top wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference and will face Metropolitan Division champion Washington in the first round of the playoffs.
Warren Foegele and defenseman Justin Faulk scored for the second consecutive contest, Brock McGinn notched a pair of assists and Curtis McElhinney made 28 saves in the win.
Rangers 4, Penguins 3 (OT)
Ryan Strome scored on a wrist shot from the left dot at 2:09 of overtime to give visiting New York a win over Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh's playoff lot came down to Saturday's results on the final night of the regular season. The Penguins (44-26-12, 100 points) finished third in the Metropolitan Division and will be the road team in a first-round series against the New York Islanders.
Brendan Smith, Brady Skjei and Vladislav Namestnikov also scored for the Rangers, who are out of the playoffs and finished 32-36-14 for 78 points. Goaltender Alexandar Georgiev made 36 saves.
Islanders 3, Capitals 0
Valtteri Filppula, who missed the previous eight games due to injury, scored twice and goalie Robin Lehner stopped all 29 shots he faced as New York clinched home-ice advantage in the playoffs for the first time in more than 30 years with a win over host Washington.
With the win, the Islanders (48-27-7) locked up third place in the Metropolitan Division and home ice against Pittsburgh for a first-round postseason series. It is the first time New York has held home ice since the 1987-88 season, which was the longest active home drought among the four major North American sports leagues.
The shutout also ensured the Islanders would allow the fewest goals in the league after allowing the most last season, when they missed the playoffs by 17 points. Lehner's shutout was his career-high sixth and the team-record 11th of the season.
Stars 3, Wild 0
Tyler Seguin scored twice in the first nine minutes of the third period, and that's all goaltender Ben Bishop needed as Dallas defeated visiting Minnesota to clinch the Western Conference's first wild-card spot.
The Stars (43-32-7, 93 points) are in the postseason for the first time since 2016 and enter the Stanley Cup playoffs as the seventh seed in the West. Dallas won five of its final seven games and will play Nashville, the Central Division champion, in the first round, with the schedule to be determined.
The Wild (37-36-9, 83 points) won only four of their final 14 games and missed the playoffs for the first time in seven seasons. Minnesota was shut out 11 times this season and managed only 24 shots in the loss.
Oilers 3, Flames 1
Leon Draisaitl's 50th goal of the season was overshadowed by Connor McDavid sustaining an injury early in the second period as visiting Edmonton beat Calgary.
McDavid was driving to the net when he was tripped up by Flames captain Mark Giordano and went crashing into the post, his left shin taking the brunt of the force. He remained on the ice for several minutes and didn't put any weight on his leg as he was helped to the dressing room. Giordano was assessed a tripping penalty on the play.
Edmonton took advantage of the ensuing power play with Alex Chiasson netting his 22nd goal of the season. Flames goalie Mike Smith couldn't contain Oscar Klefbom's point shot, and Chiasson pounced on the loose puck for the eventual game-winning goal.
Kings 5, Golden Knights 2
Ilya Kovalchuk scored two goals and Anze Kopitar had a goal and an assist to lead host Los Angeles to victory over Vegas.
Jeff Carter and Matt Roy also scored goals for Los Angeles, which finished last in the Western Conference for the first time since 2007-08 with 71 points and a 31-42-9 record. Dustin Brown added a pair of assists.
Jonathan Quick finished with 29 saves to pick up his 309th career victory, fourth best among U.S. born goaltenders in NHL history. Quick, pulled after giving up seven goals on 25 shots in a 7-2 loss to Calgary in his previous start on April 1, finished the season with a 16-23-7 record.
Sharks 5, Avalanche 2
Even before the opening faceoff of its road loss to San Jose, Colorado knew its fate as hopes of claiming the first of two Western Conference wild-card playoff berths were dashed when Dallas defeated Minnesota earlier in the evening.
That means Colorado (38-30-14, 90 points) will play Calgary, who finished second in the President's Trophy race behind Tampa Bay. The Sharks (46-27-9, 101 points), who finished second in the Pacific Division, will face Vegas in the first round of the playoffs.
Evander Kane and Gustav Nyquist each had a goal and an assist for the Sharks, who won for just the third time in their last 12 games (3-8-1). Brent Burns, Kevin Labanc and Micheal Haley also scored, Tomas Hertl notched two assists and Martin Jones made 28 saves.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Seth Jones' power-play goal late in the third period capped a thrilling rally as the Columbus Blue Jackets erased a three-goal deficit and stunned the host Tampa Bay Lightning 4-3 on Wednesday in the opening round of the Stanley Cup playoffs.
Jones scored his second career playoff goal with 5:55 to play. He took a slick pass from Artemi Panarin and roofed the power-play goal to complete a spree of four unanswered goals, three of which came in the third period.
Josh Anderson had a goal and an assist, and Nick Foligno and David Savard also tallied for the Blue Jackets, who lost all three regular-season meetings with the Lightning by a combined score of 17-3.
The Lightning, who won the Presidents' Trophy and tied an NHL single-season record with 62 wins, led 3-0 after one period on goals by Alex Killorn, Anthony Cirelli and Yanni Gourde.
Blues 2, Jets 1
Tyler Bozak scored the game winner with overtime looming as St. Louis rode a third-period comeback to a stunning win at Winnipeg in the opener of a first-round Western Conference playoff series.
With his team controlling play for much of the third period, St. Louis' Patrick Maroon created a turnover with his effective forecheck and sent the puck to the slot for Bozak. Bozak snapped a quick shot that found the mark for the game winner with 2:05 remaining in regulation.
The Jets pushed hard for the equalizer, but couldn't solve St. Louis goalie Jordan Binnington, who made 24 saves. With 12.4 seconds remaining, Binnington got across his net in time to deny Mark Scheifele's one-timer. Winnipeg's Patrik Laine opened the scoring in the first period, and St. Louis' David Perron responded early in the third.
Islanders 4, Penguins 3 (OT)
Josh Bailey scored 4:39 into overtime as New York edged Pittsburgh in Game 1 of an Eastern Conference quarterfinal series in Uniondale, N.Y.
Bailey put back the rebound of a shot by Mathew Barzal for the Islanders. Jordan Eberle and Brock Nelson scored in the first period for the Islanders, and Nick Leddy scored in the third. Robin Lehner recorded 41 saves.
Phil Kessel scored in the first period for the Penguins and Evgeni Malkin scored in the second before Justin Schultz forced overtime by scoring with 1:29 remaining in regulation. Matt Murray made 29 saves.
Stars 3, Predators 2
Rookie Miro Heiskanen scored twice, and Mats Zuccarello notched the game-winner midway through the third period as visiting Dallas upset Nashville in the opening clash of their first-round Western Conference playoff series.
Dallas goalie Ben Bishop made 30 saves to hang on for the win over the Central Division champions.
Predators defensemen Roman Josi and P.K. Subban each scored goals, and Pekka Rinne stopped 26 shots.
Sharks 5, Golden Knights 2
Brent Burns, Evander Kane, Tomas Hertl and Marc-Edouard Vlasic each had goal and an assist, and Martin Jones finished with 24 saves to lead host San Jose to the victory over Vegas in Game 1 of a first-round Western Conference playoff series.
Joe Pavelski also scored a goal, and Erik Karlsson added two assists for the Sharks.
Mark Stone scored both goals for Vegas, his first career two-goal playoff game. Max Pacioretty finished with two assists while Marc-Andre Fleury made 28 saves.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
The team expected to win it all faces an opponent that loaded up for the same thing, the defending champions go up against a playoff newcomer and the wild West is wide open in the quest for the Stanley Cup.
The NHL playoffs open Wednesday when the Presidents' Trophy-winning Tampa Bay Lightning host the Columbus Blue Jackets in Game 1 of their first-round series. Five of the eight series get underway Wednesday and the other three Thursday.
"Best time of year," Boston goaltender Tuukka Rask said.
In the other Wednesday openers, the 2016 and 2017 Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins visit the New York Islanders at the renovated Nassau Coliseum, the St. Louis Blues visit the Winnipeg Jets, the Dallas Stars visit the Central Division champion Nashville Predators and the defending Western Conference champion Vegas Golden Knights play Game 1 at San Jose.
"The last couple months, we've been getting ourselves ready," Blues winger Alex Steen said. "We've been pretty dialed in on what we want to do."
In the Thursday openers, the Bruins host the Toronto Maple Leafs, the reigning Cup champion Washington Capitals host the Carolina Hurricanes and West-best Calgary hosts the Colorado Avalanche.
Carolina is in the playoffs for the first time in a decade but Washington can't overlook this matchup.
"They're a really good team, extremely improved, play with a ton of speed, great D corps in terms of mobile guys, depth scoring and then their goaltenders have been outstanding for them," Capitals coach Todd Reirden said. "If you look at their team from the All-Star break on or even earlier than that, they were one of the best teams in the league, so we know we've got to be on top of our game and it's going to be a real challenge."
The Atlantic Division bracket features an intriguing showdown between the Lightning and Blue Jackets, who acquired pending free agents Matt Duchene, Ryan Dzingel and Adam McQuaid and held on to good-as-gone goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky and winger Artemi Panarin at the trade deadline to take a shot at the Cup. Columbus has never won a playoff series and has a tough task against Tampa Bay, which is led by league-leading scorer Nikita Kucherov and Vezina Trophy candidate Andrei Vasilevskiy.
The winner of that series faces the winner of Boston-Toronto, which is a rematch of last year's first round matchup that went to the Bruins in seven.
"We've got to play a really solid, sound defensive game," Maple Leafs forward Connor Brown said.
Barry Trotz's Islanders face Mike Sullivan's Penguins in a matchup of the past two Cup-winning coaches. Whoever gets through that coin flip of a series faces the winner of Washington-Carolina.
San Jose has defenseman Erik Karlsson back for its heavyweight bout with Vegas for the right to face the winner of Calgary-Colorado in the Pacific Division. The Flames rolled to the top seed in the West and trailed only Tampa Bay in the points race.
"You grind 82 games all year," Flames defenseman Travis Hamonic said. "Here we are at this point and we've set ourselves up to be in the playoffs, and in the dance, now we just have to go out and execute like we can."
After the Central Division got shook up in the final week of the regular season, the winner of Nashville-Dallas will face the winner of Winnipeg-St. Louis.
"A lot of excitement for what is going to be a good series," Jets captain Blake Wheeler said.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky made 30 saves to lead Columbus to a 3-1 win over the visiting Tampa Bay Lightning on Sunday night, lifting the Blue Jackets to a commanding 3-0 lead in their opening-round playoff series.
Cam Atkinson had a goal and an assist, and Matt Duchene and Oliver Bjorkstrand tallied for the Blue Jackets, who have won 10 of their last 11 games, including seven of eight to close the regular season and earn the second wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference.
Bobrovsky stopped 16 shots in the third period, as Tampa Bay tried to rally from a 2-0 deficit but couldn't do so in front of a raucous crowd at Nationwide Arena. The Blue Jackets can close out the series against club in Game 4 in Columbus on Tuesday.
Ondrej Palat scored a goal, and Andrei Vasilevskiy made 27 saves for the Presidents' Trophy-winning Lightning, who tied an NHL single-season record with 62 regular-season wins and dropped their third straight game for the first time this season.
Islanders 4, Penguins 1
Jordan Eberle scored his third goal in as many games as New York took a commanding lead in its first-round playoff series with host Pittsburgh.
Brock Nelson, Leo Komarov and Anders Lee also scored for the Islanders, who took a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series, with Game 4 set for Tuesday in Pittsburgh. New York spotted Pittsburgh a 1-0 lead before netting four unanswered goals.
The Penguins, who won the Stanley Cup in 2016 and 2017, continued to be thwarted by the Islanders' stifling pressure and the play of goaltender Robin Lehner, who made 25 saves Sunday.
Jets 6, Blues 3
Second-period goals four minutes apart by Kevin Hayes, Patrik Laine and Kyle Connor, who scored two goals in the game, sent Winnipeg off and running to a road victory over St. Louis.
The Jets, who lost the first two games of the series on their home ice, pulled to within 2-1 in the best-of-seven Stanley Cup playoffs series. Game 4 will be Tuesday in St. Louis.
Brandon Tanev and Dustin Byfuglien also scored for the Jets, who got 26 saves from Connor Hellebuyck. David Perron, Vladimir Tarasenko and Alex Steen scored for the Blues, who got 23 saves from Jordan Binnington.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Captain Jonathan Toews scored his career-high 35th goal and also converted in the first round of a shootout as the host Chicago Blackhawks skated to a 4-3 victory over the St. Louis Blues on Wednesday.
Patrick Kane collected a goal and an assist to set a career high of his own with 107 points. Artem Anisimov also tallied for the Blackhawks, who won four of the five meetings in the season series with the Blues.
Vladimir Tarasenko scored his team-leading 32nd goal, and David Perron also tallied for the third-place Blues, who are 7-1-2 in their past 10 games and moved within one point of front-running Winnipeg and Nashville in the Central Division.
Kane's team-leading 42nd goal allowed him to surpass his point total from his Hart Trophy-winning campaign in 2015-16. Toews' 35th goal eclipsed his previous career-high mark set during the 2008-09 season.
Ducks 3, Flames 1
Ryan Miller had 25 saves, and Ryan Getzlaf scored a goal as host Anaheim continued its home dominance of Calgary.
It was the 378th career victory for Miller, increasing his record for most by a U.S. born goaltender in NHL history. The Ducks improved 39-9-6 all time against the Flames in games played at Anaheim.
Derek Ryan scored the only goal for Calgary, which already clinched the Pacific Division and the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference for the Stanley Cup playoffs and thus rested their top four defensemen -- Mark Giordano, T.J. Brodie, Travis Hamonic and Noah Hanifin -- for the second straight game, as well as regulars Sean Monahan, Elias Lindholm and Sam Bennett.
Senators 4, Rangers 1
Rookie Brady Tkachuk had a goal with an assist to help visiting Senators beat New York and take the season series between two teams that will miss the playoffs.
Bobby Ryan, Zack Smith and Brian Gibbons also scored, and backup goalie Anders Nilsson made 27 saves for the Senators. Though Ottawa will finish with the fewest points in the NHL, it has won six times in the past 10 games.
New York is 3-8-1 over the past 12 games. Henrik Lundqvist also stopped 27 shots while losing his sixth consecutive start. He remains one win shy of 450 for his career.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Warren Foegele and Dougie Hamilton each scored two goals as the Carolina Hurricanes, despite being down to 10 forwards for most of the game, trounced the visiting Washington Capitals 5-0 in Game 3 of their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series Monday at Raleigh, N.C.
It was the first home playoff game in 10 years for the Hurricanes, with PNC Arena full of energy. The Capitals hold a 2-1 series lead going to Game 4 on Thursday night in Raleigh.
Brock McGinn added a goal and an assist, and Carolina goalie Petr Mrazek stopped 18 shots for his fifth career playoff victory -- four of them shutouts. Washington, the defending Stanley Cup champions, had won six straight postseason games dating to last season.
Hurricanes rookie Andrei Svechnikov, 19, exited in the first period after he was dropped by a punch from Alex Ovechkin. Svechnikov, who appeared to be knocked out, hit the back of his head on the ice as he fell. Carolina's Micheal Ferland also left in the first period because of an upper-body injury.
Avalanche 6, Flames 2
Nathan MacKinnon had two goals and an assist, Cale Makar scored in his NHL debut, and Colorado put 56 shots on goal while beating Calgary in Denver in a Western Conference quarterfinal series. Makar played Saturday for UMass in the NCAA championship game.
Mikko Rantanen and Matt Nieto had a goal and an assist each, Erik Johnson also scored, and Philipp Grubauer stopped 25 shots for eighth-seeded Colorado, which took a 2-1 series lead over the top-seeded Flames.
Sam Bennett and TJ Brodie produced goals, and Mike Smith made 50 saves for the Flames. Calgary has dropped the past two games in the series after shutting out the Avalanche 4-0 in Game 1. The Flames allowed two power-play goals and a short-handed tally Monday.
Predators 3, Stars 2
Mikael Granlund's goal midway through the third period broke a deadlock, and Pekka Rinne sparkled in net as visiting Nashville defeated Dallas and took the lead in their opening round Western Conference playoff series.
The Stars had all the momentum, and not just because they had erased a two-goal deficit, when Granlund sent a long wrist shot that somehow beat Ben Bishop with 8:19 left on the clock.
The Predators held on the rest of the way thanks to Rinne to take a 2-1 edge in the best-of-seven series. Rinne made 40 saves, including a mammoth stop on Jamie Benn right after the Stars made it a 2-2 game.
Maple Leafs 3, Bruins 2
Auston Matthews and Andreas Johnsson each had a goal and an assist as Toronto defeated visiting Boston. The Maple Leafs took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.
Trevor Moore also scored for Toronto, while David Krejci and Charlie Coyle scored for Boston.
Frederik Andersen stopped 34 shots in the Toronto goal. On the opposite end of the rink, Tuukka Rask made 31 saves for Boston.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
BOSTON — The Tampa Bay Lightning won their NHL record-tying 62nd game, getting a shorthanded goal by Steven Stamkos during a three-goal second period in their 6-3 victory over the Boston Bruins on Saturday in the teams' regular-season finale.
Nikita Kucherov, Anthony Cirelli, Erik Cernak and Braydon Coburn also scored for Tampa Bay (62-16-4), which tied the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings for most victories during the regular season.
Six of the wins, though, came in shootouts. The league introduced shootouts to decide ties after overtime at the start of the 2005-06 season. Before that, games ended in ties after overtime, which was brought in for regular-season games in 1983.
David Krejci, Danton Heinen and Matt Grzelcyk each had a goal for Boston (49-24-9), which fell one short of consecutive 50-win seasons since collecting four straight from 1970-71 through 1973-74. Tuukka Rask made 16 saves.
Kucherov will almost certainly win the Art Ross Trophy as the NHL's leading scorer with 128 points (41 goals, 87 assists) barring a record setting night Edmonton's Connor McDavid, who trails by 12 points.
Third-string goalie Edward Pasquale stopped 30 shots and Tyler Johnson added an empty-netter.
It was the Lightning's 30th road win, making them just the second team in league history to reach that total. The 2005-06 Red Wings had 31.
Both teams had a handful of players that were rested. Boston had a larger group that included top-line players Patrice Bergeron and Brad Marchand, who finished as the first Bruins player with 100 points in a regular season (36 goals, 64 assists) since Joe Thornton in 2002-03.
Trailing 2-1, Stamkos stole a pass and went in all alone, shifting around Rask before tucking a backhander into the net for an unassisted goal, tying it at 2 midway into the second. Cirelli's goal 4:07 later moved the Lightning ahead 3-2. Kucherov scored 53 seconds into the third.
Krejci's was credited with a goal 14:38 into the game that made it 1-0. Charlie McAvoy was originally given the goal after he collected a loose puck and fired it at the net as Krejci was charging toward the front.
Heinen beat Pasquale with a rising wrister inside the left post to make it 2-0 with 19.1 seconds left in the opening period. Cernak slipped a wrister past Rask from the slot for a power-play goal 4:41 into the second.
NOTES: Kucherov's goal gave him 127 points, tying Alexander Mogilny's mark set in 1992-93 for most by a Russian-born player. . Bruins defensemen Brandon Carlo, John Moore and Kevan Miller were out of the lineup along with forwards Chris Wagner and Noel Acciari. . Tampa Bay sat defensemen Victor Hedman, Anton Stralman and Mikhail Sergachev and forwards Cedric Paquette and Brayden Point. . Marchand won the Elizabeth Dufresne Trophy that's voted by the local chapter of the Professional Hockey Writers Association for the best performance during home games. . Boston's Charlie Coyle played his 500th NHL game.
UP NEXT
Lightning: Host Columbus or Carolina in the first game of the opening-round of the playoffs this week.
Bruins: Host Toronto in Game 1 of the first round, likely beginning Thursday.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky made 30 saves to lead Columbus to a 3-1 win over the visiting Tampa Bay Lightning on Sunday night, lifting the Blue Jackets to a commanding 3-0 lead in their opening-round playoff series.
Cam Atkinson had a goal and an assist, and Matt Duchene and Oliver Bjorkstrand tallied for the Blue Jackets, who have won 10 of their last 11 games, including seven of eight to close the regular season and earn the second wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference.
Bobrovsky stopped 16 shots in the third period, as Tampa Bay tried to rally from a 2-0 deficit but couldn't do so in front of a raucous crowd at Nationwide Arena. The Blue Jackets can close out the series against club in Game 4 in Columbus on Tuesday.
Ondrej Palat scored a goal, and Andrei Vasilevskiy made 27 saves for the Presidents' Trophy-winning Lightning, who tied an NHL single-season record with 62 regular-season wins and dropped their third straight game for the first time this season.
Islanders 4, Penguins 1
Jordan Eberle scored his third goal in as many games as New York took a commanding lead in its first-round playoff series with host Pittsburgh.
Brock Nelson, Leo Komarov and Anders Lee also scored for the Islanders, who took a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series, with Game 4 set for Tuesday in Pittsburgh. New York spotted Pittsburgh a 1-0 lead before netting four unanswered goals.
The Penguins, who won the Stanley Cup in 2016 and 2017, continued to be thwarted by the Islanders' stifling pressure and the play of goaltender Robin Lehner, who made 25 saves Sunday.
Jets 6, Blues 3
Second-period goals four minutes apart by Kevin Hayes, Patrik Laine and Kyle Connor, who scored two goals in the game, sent Winnipeg off and running to a road victory over St. Louis.
The Jets, who lost the first two games of the series on their home ice, pulled to within 2-1 in the best-of-seven Stanley Cup playoffs series. Game 4 will be Tuesday in St. Louis.
Brandon Tanev and Dustin Byfuglien also scored for the Jets, who got 26 saves from Connor Hellebuyck. David Perron, Vladimir Tarasenko and Alex Steen scored for the Blues, who got 23 saves from Jordan Binnington.
Golden Knights 6, Sharks 3
Mark Stone and Paul Stastny each had five points as Vegas took a 2-1 lead in its first-round playoff series with a convincing victory over visiting San Jose.
Stone notched his first-ever hat trick, while Stastny's five-point night was the first of his career. Both set a team record for points in a playoff game. Max Pacioretty added a goal and an assist, and Shea Theodore also had three assists for Vegas. Marc-Andre Fleury finished with 25 saves.
Kevin Labanc, Timo Meier and Logan Couture scored for San Jose, which surrendered goals within the first 36 seconds in all three periods. Martin Jones finished with 34 saves.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
The Tampa Bay Lightning dominated the regular season, but can they strike again in the postseason?
The curtain fell on the NHL regular season on Saturday night, and the Stanley Cup playoffs begin Wednesday with all eyes on the Lightning (62-16-4, 128 points). The next closest point total to Tampa Bay's tally was 107, produced by both the Western Conference-leading Calgary Flames (50-25-7) and the Eastern Conference runner-up Boston Bruins (49-24-9).
The Atlantic Division-winning Lightning, who matched the league record with their 62 wins and had sewn up the Presidents' Trophy for most points in the season by mid-March, will begin the second season by meeting the Columbus Blue Jackets (47-31-4, 98 points).
The Carolina Hurricanes (46-29-7, 99 points) and the Blue Jackets were set as the Eastern Conference wild cards, but their order wasn't in place until the Hurricanes won their game on Saturday and relegated the Blue Jackets to the second wild-card -- and the first-round date with the Lightning.
Lest Tampa Bay take Columbus lightly, the Blue Jackets begin the postseason having won seven of their past eight games. The Hurricanes, winners of four of their last five to close out the regular season, must face the defending Stanley Cup champion Washington Capitals (48-26-8, 104 points), the Metropolitan Division champions.
The other Eastern Conference first-round matchups have the divisions' second- and third-place teams squaring off.
In the Atlantic Division, that's the Bruins facing the Toronto Maple Leafs (46-28-8, 100 points). In the Metropolitan, the New York Islanders (48-27-7, 103 points), mostly an after-thought as a postseason contender when the season began, facing the Pittsburgh Penguins (44-26-12, 100 points).
Out West, the Pacific Division champion Flames have been winning in spurts since mid-February, with their 107 points enough to outlast the division runner-up San Jose Sharks (101) and the Central Division champion Nashville Predators (100).
Calgary's reward is a first-round series against the Colorado Avalanche (38-30-14, 90 points), the second wild card. The Avalanche will be facing a team that had 10 winning streaks of at least three games during the season, including a seven-gamer that ran until the end of February.
The Flames finished the season winning 16 of their last 25 games, adding three more three-game winning streaks along the way.
The Avalanche begin the postseason on their own roll, having finished 8-1-2, although they lost to Calgary all three times during the regular season. The teams haven't met since Jan. 9.
The Predators (47-29-6, 100 points) will tangle with the Stars (43-32-7, 93 points). Dallas locked down the West's first wild card by winning five of its final seven games.
The other two Western Conference postseason series will feature the Pacific's second- and third-place teams, the San Jose Sharks (46-27-9, 101 points) and Vegas Golden Knights (43-32-7, 93 points), respectively, and the Central's next best squads, the Winnipeg Jets (47-30-5, 99 points) and the St. Louis Blues (45-28-9, 99 points).
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Mitch Marner scored two goals -- one on a short-handed penalty shot in the second period -- and the visiting Toronto Maple Leafs went on to defeat the Boston Bruins 4-1 Thursday night in the opener of a best-of-seven, first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.
William Nylander and John Tavares (into an empty net) also scored for the Maple Leafs. Patrice Bergeron scored for the Bruins, who won a first-round series over the Maple Leafs in seven games last season.
Toronto goaltender Frederik Andersen made 37 saves and frustrated the Bruins on several occasions. Tuukka Rask stopped 29 shots for Boston.
After tying the game late in the first, Marner was tripped by Jake DeBrusk on a short-handed breakaway early in the second to earn a penalty shot. Marner deked Rask easily for what proved to be the game-winner at 2:47 of the second period.
Capitals 4, Hurricanes 2
Nicklas Backstrom scored two of Washington's three first-period goals, and the Capitals held off a late Carolina rally for a victory in Game 1 of a first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.
Backstrom had multiple goals for the third time in his playoff career, coming just over three minutes apart in that opening period. Alex Ovechkin also scored in the first period, and John Carlson notched a hat trick of assists, getting helpers on all three first-period goals. That tied the NHL record for most assists in a period of a playoff game.
Hurricanes rookie Andrei Svechnikov scored twice in a span of 2:19 in the third period to cut the deficit to 3-2, but Lars Eller put it away with an empty-net goal in the final minute. Svechnikov (19 years, 16 days) became the youngest player with multiple goals in a playoff game since 1997.
Flames 4, Avalanche 0
Mike Smith stopped all 26 shots he faced to earn the shutout, and Matthew Tkachuk scored twice as host Calgary beat Colorado in the first game of their opening-round Western Conference playoff series.
Smith was undoubtedly the star while posting his fourth career playoff shutout and adding an assist in the process. His teammates rewarded him with more than enough offense. Andrew Mangiapane broke the deadlock late in the second period for his first playoff goal, and Mikael Backlund also found the net.
Avalanche goalie Philipp Grubauer made 28 saves in the loss.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
DENVER — A wide-open Cale Makar screamed toward Nathan MacKinnon to deliver him the puck.
That made an instant impression with MacKinnon on a night when Makar made an immediate impact. This newly signed rookie isn't intimidated by the stage or his surroundings.
MacKinnon scored twice in the first period and set up Makar's first NHL goal in his debut as the Colorado Avalanche routed the Calgary Flames 6-2 on Monday to take a 2-1 lead in their first-round playoff series.
"It's pretty weird. Pretty special, though," Makar said of his first game. "Obviously, it's a cool moment."
Matt Nieto added a short-handed goal, and Mikko Rantanen and Erik Johnson also scored for the wild-card Avalanche, who built a 6-1 lead early in the third period and finished with 56 shots. Philipp Grubauer was credited with 27 saves.
MacKinnon had two power-play goals. But the goal of the night was turned in by Makar, the 20-year-old defenseman who was signed Sunday and jumped into Colorado's postseason lineup two days after his college season ended when Massachusetts lost in the Frozen Four championship game.
Makar, who grew up a Flames fan in Calgary, was the fourth overall pick by the Avalanche in 2017.
It didn't take long for Makar to make a big contribution as he took a drop pass from MacKinnon, fought off a Flames defender and beat goalie Mike Smith with a wrist shot — on his first NHL shot on net, too. Makar was immediately mobbed by teammates as his parents celebrated in the stands.
"I heard him, too. He was calling for it," MacKinnon said. "First game ever and he screamed at me. That's great. You want a player to be aggressive, assertive, and I was really impressed by that."
Sam Bennett and TJ Brodie scored for the Flames, the top seed in the Western Conference.
Game 4 is Wednesday night in Denver.
"We've got to regroup here, and stick together as a team," Calgary defenseman Mark Giordano said. "There wasn't much good, honestly, throughout the night. We made that team look and feel good all night."
There was talk of pulling Smith after the second period, just to save some energy. He didn't want to surrender the net.
"As a goalie in this league, you want to battle no matter how many goals have gone in," Smith said.
Things got physical in the third period with the game out of hand. First, Bennett was given a misconduct penalty for a fight with Matt Calvert. Later, Matthew Tkachuk received a misconduct penalty for mixing it up with Avalanche captain Gabriel Landeskog, who had a cut under his eye. Finally, Garnet Hathaway and Nikita Zadorov were sent to the dressing room for their skirmish.
"I thought it got away from us early and obviously we chased the game the rest of the game," Flames coach Bill Peters said.
The first period was a debacle for Calgary in falling behind 3-0. The team took two penalties on one play — hooking and too many men — to give Colorado an early 5-on-3 power play. MacKinnon sent in a high wrist shot over Smith.
Later in the first, the Flames were called for another penalty and MacKinnon added another power-play goal.
Still, it might be MacKinnon's pass that is best remembered. He set up Makar at 16:02 of the first period. The NHL communications department said on Twitter that Makar became the seventh player in NHL history and first defenseman to make his debut in the Stanley Cup playoffs and score a goal.
Wearing No. 8, Makar jumped on the ice early in the game and was given a loud cheer by the capacity crowd. About the only hiccup was in the second period when he lost control of the puck with no one around near his own goal. But he gained control just before it hit the post, with Grubauer looking back.
It's certainly been a whirlwind week for Makar: He won the Hobey Baker Award on Friday as college hockey's top player before losing to Minnesota Duluth on Saturday in the title game. He signed a three-year deal with Colorado on Sunday and arrived in town later that night.
Now, he's donning an Avs sweater against the team he grew up rooting for. He practiced with Colorado for the first time Monday morning.
While in college, he caught his fair share of Avalanche games.
"When I wasn't doing homework and other stuff," Makar said. "I like the way they play. They're very fast."
NOTES: Tkachuk slid into the boards in the second period and lost a blade on his skate. ... Avalanche D Samuel Girard was out with an upper-body injury. ... Avalanche D Ian Cole had two assists. ... The 56 shots were the most by Colorado in a playoff game since June 10, 1996, at Florida. That total was also 56, in Game 4 of the Stanley Cup Final.
UP NEXT
Calgary will try to tie the series in Game 4 on Wednesday night in Denver.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
BOSTON — The Tampa Bay Lightning won their NHL record-tying 62nd game, getting a short-handed goal by Steven Stamkos during a three-goal second period in a 6-3 victory over the Boston Bruins on Saturday in the teams' regular-season finale.
Nikita Kucherov, Anthony Cirelli, Erik Cernak and Braydon Coburn also scored for Tampa Bay (62-16-4), which tied the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings for most victories during the regular season. Third-string goalie Edward Pasquale stopped 30 shots and Tyler Johnson added an empty-netter.
Six of the wins, though, came in shootouts. The league introduced shootouts to decide ties after overtime at the start of the 2005-06 season. Before that, games ended in ties after overtime, which was brought in for regular-season games in 1983.
David Krejci, Danton Heinen and Matt Grzelcyk each had a goal for Boston (49-24-9). Tuukka Rask made 16 saves.
It was the Lightning's 30th road win, making them just the second team in league history to reach that total. The 2005-06 Red Wings had 31.
BLUES 3, CANUCKS 2
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Jordan Binnington stopped both shots he faced in the shootout, and St. Louis remained in the hunt for the Central Division title with a win over Vancouver.
Binnington finished with 23 saves and closed out his breakthrough season with a 24-5-1 record.
Vladimir Tarasenko and Brayden Schenn scored in regulation for the Blues. Ryan O'Reilly and David Perron converted in the tiebreaker.
St. Louis (45-28-9) moved into first place in the Central with 99 points, one more than Nashville and Winnipeg. The Predators host the Chicago Blackhawks and the Jets visit Arizona on Saturday night.
Elias Pettersson and Tanner Pearson scored for Vancouver (35-36-11). Thatcher Demko made 34 saves for the Canucks, who missed the playoffs for the fourth season in a row.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Brown just completed his first season with the Wild, having signed a two-year deal last offseason, and finished with three goals and five assists in 56 games. The Wild, who lost to the Stars 3-0 in Saturday's finale, finished the season 37-36-9 (83 points) -- in last place in the Central Division.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
The Montreal Canadiens gained a critical victory in their playoff chase with a 4-2 win over the visiting Tampa Bay Lightning on Tuesday.
The win brings the Canadiens (43-29-8, 94 points) even on points with the Columbus Blue Jackets for the second Eastern Conference wild-card slot. Both teams have 94 points, though Columbus is still ahead on a tiebreaker. The Carolina Hurricanes are only a point ahead of Montreal and Columbus for the first wild-card position.
After falling behind twice in the game, Montreal finally took the lead on Artturi Lehkonen's goal 7:47 into the third period. A looping shot from Victor Mete was batted out of the air by Lehkonen, then knocked in on his second attempt for his 11th goal of the season.
Lehkonen also had an assist in the game, while Jordie Benn contributed two assists for the Canadiens. The Lightning must win their final two games to equal the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings for the most wins in a single season.
Hurricanes 4, Maple Leafs 1
Dougie Hamilton had two goals as visiting Carolina defeated Toronto to leap to the front of the East wild-card chase.
Justin Williams and Jordan Staal also scored for the Hurricanes (44-29-7, 95 points), who won for only the second time in a five-game stretch. Staal and Hamilton each scored in the third period, including the final one into an empty net by Hamilton. Staal also recorded an assist.
John Tavares scored for the Maple Leafs (46-27-7, 99 points), who secured a playoff spot Monday night with a victory at the New York Islanders.
Bruins 6, Blue Jackets 2
Jake DeBrusk scored two goals, including one of the luckiest he'll ever tally, and Brad Marchand reached the century mark for points as visiting Boston routed Columbus.
The Bruins (48-23-9, 105 points) solidified their claim for second place in the Atlantic Division, while the Blue Jackets (45-31-4, 94 points) saw their five-game winning streak snapped.
DeBrusk's opening tally 118 seconds into the affair set the tone for the rest of the game for both teams. From the slot, he swung at a cross-ice pass and watched as the puck bounced off the top of the net, off the back of Columbus goalie Sergei Bobrovsky and into the cage.
Stars 6, Flyers 2
Alexander Radulov had two goals, including the game-winner, and two assists, as Dallas rolled past visiting Philadelphia to clinch a playoff spot for the first time since 2016.
The win was the fourth in the past five games for the Stars (42-31-7, 91 points), who held on to their three-point cushion as the first wild-card team in the Western Conference with two games to play in the regular season: Friday at Chicago and Saturday at home versus Minnesota.
Dallas goalkeeper Anton Khudobin recorded 32 saves in the win. Esa Lindell and Jason Dickinson each had a goal and an assist.
Avalanche 6, Oilers 2
Alexander Kerfoot scored two goals, Tyson Barrie had a goal and an assist, and Colorado scored six unanswered goals to beat Edmonton in Denver.
Nathan MacKinnon, Colin Wilson and Sven Andrighetto also scored, and Semyon Varlamov had 27 saves for Colorado (37-29-14, 88 points).
The Avalanche took firm control of the second wild-card spot in the West, as the Arizona Coyotes (84 points) lost to Los Angeles later Tuesday. With two games remaining for both teams, Arizona must win out while Colorado loses out to get into the postseason on a tiebreaker.
Kings 3, Coyotes 1
Arizona's playoff hopes took a major hit, and the team also lost goalie Darcy Kuemper to an eye injury in a loss to visiting Los Angeles.
Trevor Lewis gave the Kings a 2-1 lead with a goal at 3:29 of the third period. Lewis was bumped from behind by Coyotes defenseman Kevin Connauton just as the puck crossed the goal line, and his stick blade went through Kuemper's mask and struck him in the face near his right eye.
Kuemper lay on the ice in pain while being treated by trainers, before departing with a towel held to his face. He was replaced by Cal Pickard, though head coach Rick Tocchet expressed optimism about Kemper's status after the game.
Wild 5, Jets 1
Zach Parise scored twice in his return from a four-game injury absence as Minnesota completed a five-game season sweep of Winnipeg with a victory in Saint Paul, Minn.
Victor Rask, Joel Eriksson Ek and Marcus Foligno also tallied for the Wild (37-34-9, 83 points), who recorded just their third win in 15 home outings (3-8-4). However, it was not enough to keep Minnesota in playoff contention, as Colorado's win over Edmonton officially eliminated the Wild.
Minnesota's Devan Dubnyk, who made 32 saves on Tuesday, turned aside 114 of 120 shots en route to defeating Winnipeg four times this season. The Jets (46-30-4, 96) have dropped four of their last five games and are even in points atop the Central Division with Nashville (45-29-6), though Winnipeg holds the tiebreaker.
Predators 3, Sabres 2
Ryan Johansen scored the tiebreaking goal 6:32 into the third period, and visiting Nashville handed reeling Buffalo a season-high eighth straight loss.
P.K. Subban had a goal with an assist for the Predators, who have clinched a playoff spot and are 6-2-1 in their last nine games. Pekka Rinne notched 26 saves.
Meanwhile, the Sabres (31-39-10, 72 points) are mired in their longest losing streak since 2014-15. Eliminated from playoff contention, Buffalo is 3-18-3 since Feb. 15.
Red Wings 4, Penguins 1
Tyler Bertuzzi and Anthony Mantha scored two goals apiece, and host Detroit prevented Pittsburgh from clinching a playoff berth.
The Penguins needed a victory or a Montreal loss to Tampa Bay to secure a spot in the postseason. Pittsburgh (43-26-11, 97 points) has two games remaining.
Bertuzzi set a franchise record with his fourth consecutive three-point game. Mantha followed his first career hat trick against Boston on Sunday with two third-period goals. The other member of Detroit's first line, Dylan Larkin, collected three assists as the Red Wings (32-38-10, 74 points) notched their season-high sixth straight victory.
Canucks 4, Sharks 2
Markus Granlund's goal at 13:39 of the third period gave Vancouver a comeback home-ice victory over San Jose.
Granlund gave the Canucks an insurmountable 3-2 lead, tapping in a rebound off the post during a scramble, as they rallied from a 2-1 deficit with goals two minutes and 21 seconds apart. Granlund emerged the hero for the second straight game, after also scoring the shootout winner Saturday against Dallas.
The Canucks, who have missed the playoffs for a fourth straight season, posted their third straight home win as they played their final game of 2018-19 at Rogers Arena. The Sharks suffered their ninth loss in 10 games.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Defenseman Slava Voynov has been suspended for the 2019-20 season due to "unacceptable off-ice conduct," the NHL announced Tuesday.
Voynov, 29, recently applied for reinstatement to the NHL. He was indefinitely suspended in October 2014 after being arrested following an altercation with his wife.
Police responded to Voynov's house in Redondo Beach, Calif., and said he punched, kicked and choked his wife. Voynov, who was a member of the Los Angeles Kings at the time, entered a no-contest plea in July 2015.
Last July, a conviction in that case was dismissed by a Los Angeles judge.
Tuesday's decision came after the league investigated the situation, including an in-person meeting with Voynov last month in New York.
"Today's ruling, while tailored to the specific facts of this case and the individuals involved, is necessary and consistent with the NHL's strongly-held policy that it cannot and will not tolerate this and similar types of conduct, particularly as directed at a spouse, domestic partner or family member," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said in a statement.
The NHL Players Association will review the decision. It could appeal to an independent arbitrator.
The Kings terminated Voynov's six-year, $25 million contract after his arrest and placed him on their voluntary retired list.
Voynov has since played for a Russian team and was a member of that country's 2018 gold medal-winning Olympic team.
Voynov had 18 goals and 63 assists in 190 NHL games with the Kings from 2011-14.
The NHL says that with "good behavior," Voynov will be eligible to sign with an NHL team on July 1, 2020.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
As if trying to climb out of an 0-2 hole weren't already difficult enough, the Tampa Bay Lightning may be forced to try to save their season without the NHL's leading scorer.
Lightning forward Nikita Kucherov will have a hearing Saturday with the NHL's department of player safety to discuss his hit on Columbus defenseman Markus Nutivaara during Tampa Bay's 5-1 home loss on Friday.
The incident occurred with 4:26 remaining in the game and the score already 5-1, with Kucherov drawing a minor penalty for tripping, a major penalty for boarding and a game misconduct.
Per the NHL, boarding is the grounds on which the league is considering additional discipline -- which could include a suspension. However, as NHL.com pointed out, "The department of player safety retains the right to make adjustments to the infraction upon review."
Kucherov, 25, led all players this season with 128 points (41 goals, 87 assists) and is considered the favorite to win the Hart Memorial Trophy, awarded to the NHL's Most Valuable Player.
The Lightning tied an NHL record with 62 regular-season wins, and they finished with 30 more points than Columbus, the Eastern Conference's second wild card. While the 62 wins and 128 points had people talking about the Lightning as one of the great all-time regular-season teams, the start to Tampa Bay's postseason has been nothing short of mind-boggling.
After blowing a three-goal lead and losing Game 1 at home 4-3 on Wednesday, the Lightning came out on their heels Friday. The Blue Jackets led 3-0 after two periods and cruised from there. Game 3 is scheduled for Sunday in Columbus, Ohio.
Kucherov did not score a point in the series' first two games.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
LOS ANGELES — Ilya Kovalchuk had two goals, Dustin Brown had two assists and the last-place Los Angeles Kings closed the season with a 5-2 victory over the playoff-bound Vegas Golden Knights on Saturday night.
Anze Kopitar had a goal and an assist for Los Angeles while Jeff Carter and Matt Roy also had goals. Jonathan Quick made 29 saves.
The Kings finished last in the Western Conference with 71 points, but won six of its last 11 games.
Brandon Pirri and Valentin Zykov scored for Vegas, which is the seventh team in NHL history to make the playoffs in each of its first two seasons. The Golden Knights, third in the Pacific Division, will open the Stanley Cup Playoffs at San Jose. Mark-Andre Fleury made 27 saves.
Kovalchuk stripped the puck from Zykov in the neutral zone and skated up the left side of the ice before beating Fleury on his glove side at 12:14 of the first. It was Kovalchuk's first goal since March 2.
Carter extended the lead with five minutes remaining in the first when he was able to cash in on a rebound of his own shot for his 13th. Fleury made pad saves on the first two attempts before Carter got his third goal this season against the Golden Knights.
Roy got his second of the season at 10:35 of the second with a shot that went in off the crossbar after taking a pass from Brown.
Vegas then scored two goals less than three minutes apart. The Golden Knights got on the board 16 seconds after Roy's goal when Pirri got a loose puck near the right faceoff circle and fired a slap shot past Quick for his 12th
Zykov got the Golden Knights with his second of the season at 13:09 when he put in the net on a perfect pass from Jimmy Schuldt, who was playing in his first NHL game. Quick came out too far in front of the net, which left Zykov open.
Kopitar provided some breathing room 8:52 into the third with a power-play goal. Kopitar tapped in the loose puck for his 22nd after a mad scramble in the crease. Kovalchuk added an empty-netter with 55 seconds remaining for his 16th.
NOTES: Vegas D Nate Schmidt, D Shea Theodore, RW Reilly Smith and RW Mark Stone were all healthy scratches as the Golden Knights get set for the playoffs. ... The five goals prevented Los Angeles from having the fewest goals in the NHL this season. They finished with 202, two more than Anaheim. It was the fifth-fewest goals the Kings have scored in an 82-game season. ... Kopitar, who played in his 1,000th NHL game last Monday, was honored before the game. ... Los Angeles C Blake Lizotte, who was a teammate of Schuldt's at St. Cloud State, also made his NHL debut. Both signed their entry-level contracts earlier in the week.
UP NEXT
Golden Knights: Will face San Jose in the first round of Stanley Cup Playoffs.
Kings: Season complete.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Tampa Bay Lightning star forward Nikita Kucherov has been suspended for Game 3 of the first round of the Stanley Cup Playoffs for boarding Columbus Blue Jackets defenseman Markus Nutivaara during Game 2 Friday night.
The NHL's Department of Player Safety made the announcement Saturday afternoon.
The incident occurred at 15:34 of the third period with the Lightning down 5-1. Kucherov was assessed a major penalty and game misconduct.
The Lightning, which had the NHL's best record (62-16-4, 128 points) in the regular season, now will have to dig themselves out of an 0-2 playoff hole without the league's leading scorer. Kucherov tallied 128 points (41 goals, 87 assists).
Game 3 of the series will be played Sunday in Columbus, Ohio.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
Whenever Eric Desjardins reunites with his 1993 Montreal Canadiens teammates, the topic of Canada's ongoing Stanley Cup drought doesn't come up in conversation.
"We don't see it that way. Canadian team, American team, it's just that we were part of the NHL," the former star defenseman said. "Sure, it's been a while in Montreal, but we don't really talk about the 26 years."
That's right. With the NHL playoffs set to open Wednesday, it will be going on 26 years since the Canadiens — or any other Canadian team — brought home the Cup.
Desjardins, who enjoyed a 17-year career split between Montreal and Philadelphia, chalks up the drought to NHL expansion across the United States and league-wide parity ushered in with the introduction of the salary cap in 2005.
"It's supposed to be our national sport, and we're supposed to be the best at it," said Desjardins, who's from Montreal. "But now, the way the league's structured I think it could go anywhere. ... I think anybody can win it now. And I think it makes it more interesting."
Still, the 49-year-old acknowledged a quarter century between Cups in Canada is far too long, and Desjardins can see himself rooting for any Canadian team making it to this year's Final.
"If the Final's between Pittsburgh and Winnipeg, yeah I would root, even though I like Pittsburgh," he said. "But yeah, against Calgary, Winnipeg, I would cheer for the Canadian team."
Canada's Cup hopes this spring rest on three teams — Calgary, Winnipeg and Toronto — to end the drought. Of course, most current Canadian-born NHL players weren't alive to see Desjardins and Co. celebrate their five-game series win over the Wayne Gretzky-led Los Angeles Kings.
Sabres forward Jason Pominville is among the exceptions.
He was 10 when his hometown Habs won, and Pominville still vividly recalls Game 2 of the series in which Desjardins scored all three goals in Montreal's 3-2 overtime win after the Canadiens lost the opener.
"I remember watching that and celebrating in my living room, and fist-pumping when he scored," Pominville said. "I was a big fan of Gretzky, too. But when you're in Montreal, it's tough not to root for that team when you're growing up."
In Montreal, there was a time when winning the Cup was considered a birthright. The Canadiens still top the list with 24 championships, 23 coming after the NHL was founded in 1917.
And yet, Montreal hasn't reached the Final since '93, while only five Canadian teams have done so; Vancouver is the only one to make two appearances during the drought, in 1994 and 2011.
Then there are the Maple Leafs, who haven't reached the Final since winning the Cup in 1967, the last year of the NHL's Original Six era.
The low point might have been the 2016 playoffs, the first since 1970 to not feature a Canadian team
This was not always the case. From 1927 to 1995, the lengthiest stretch for a Canadian team not appearing in the Final was two years. It last happened in 1991-92, when Pittsburgh won consecutive championships by beating Minnesota and Chicago.
As for Canada's lengthiest Cup drought before the '93 Habs, it was a six-year span from 1936-41.
The current drought has gone on for so long, former executive-turned broadcaster Brian Burke said the math simply doesn't add up.
"It doesn't make sense. There's 31 teams, so seven out of 31 teams, a Canadian team should win every four-and-a-half years," said Burke, who has worked in the front offices in Vancouver, Toronto and Calgary.
The problem, Burke said, is Canadian teams are at a disadvantage because many players don't want to play north of the border for several reasons.
The first, he said, is a lack of privacy and the amount of pressure placed on players to win north of the border. Burke said a large number of players, including Canadians, often list all seven Canadian teams on the no-trade clauses of their contracts.
"Even in Calgary, we had our lists where players got to put 10 teams on a no-trade list, and all the Canadian teams were on those lists," he said.
The second issue is Canada's taxation rate.
"There's no privacy. Horrible personal criticisms on social media, and then you take home way less money, so it's pretty easy," Burke said.
He can only imagine how much national attention will be paid to the next Canadian team to win it all.
"The next GM that wins a Cup in Canada, they'll be naming schools after him, and streets," Burke said.
Don't think Flames GM Brad Treliving hasn't given ending the drought some thought.
"Hey, that's all you dream about," he said, while attempting to keep the pressures of winning in Canada in perspective.
"You got to bed at night and it's no different than any other manager or any other person involved in the game: That's what you want to accomplish" Treliving said. "If you really put the energy and the effort into doing the right things, the results will come."
Having lost in the Final twice, Desjardins can't remember a sweeter moment than winning the Cup.
"It's a reward that's indescribable," Desjardins said. "When you win, you can share it. You share it with your teammates, you share it with the coaching staff."
In Canada, it will be shared with an entire nation.
____
AP Hockey Writer Stephen Whyno contributed.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio — NHL leading scorer Nikita Kucherov has been suspended for Game 3 of the Tampa Bay Lightning's first-round series against the Columbus Blue Jackets.
Kucherov was suspended for boarding Columbus defenseman Markus Nutivaara late in Tampa Bay's 5-1 loss in Game 2 to trail 2-0 in the series. Kucherov was given a major penalty and ejected for hitting Nutivaara in a defenseless position with 4:26 remaining in the lopsided defeat.
The Presidents' Trophy winning Lightning will have to try to win in Columbus on Sunday without the player who put up a league-best 128 points during the season. They also could be without banged-up Norris Trophy caliber defenseman Victor Hedman, who did not practice Saturday.
Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper says he hopes Hedman can play. But Kucherov is out after what the NHL called a "dangerous hit on a player in an exposed position."
In a video announcing the suspension, the league said Kucherov's action falls in the category of message-sending because it came in the final minutes of a one-sided game.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
One day after firing head coach Bob Boughner, the Florida Panthers have hired Joel Quenneville as his successor.
Quenneville, who was fired by the Chicago Blackhawks in November, is receiving a multi-year contract worth more than $6 million a year with bonuses, according to ESPN. The Panthers announced his hiring Monday.
"Fate is a wonderful thing in my life," said Panthers general manager Dale Tallon, who hired Quenneville in Chicago but was fired by the Blackhawks a year later.
"It's like a blessing for me. This is a blessing. There are a lot of coaching jobs available. We wanted to get it done because he's a popular guy and a lot of teams out there would love to have him as their coach."
The Blackhawks won three Stanley Cups during Quenneville's tenure that began in 2008, and they missed the playoffs just once. He left with a record of 452-249-96 in 797 games.
Quenneville, 60, also coached a combined 11 seasons in Colorado and St. Louis and has an overall career record of 890-532-77-137. He won the Jack Adams Award in 1999-2000 as the NHL coach adjudged to have contributed the most to his team's success, and his 890 regular-season wins as an NHL head coach are the second most in NHL history.
"Joel is a three-time Stanley Cup champion head coach who will be a transformative leader for the Florida Panthers franchise," said Tallon. "We've seized the opportunity to add one of the most successful head coaches in hockey history and we're thrilled that Joel has agreed to take on the challenge of leading our promising young team.
"I've worked with Joel previously and have seen firsthand how his passion for the game, head coaching experience and leadership can impact an organization. Joel will accelerate our growth into a club that qualifies for the playoffs consistently and competes every year toward our goal of winning the Stanley Cup."
The Panthers were 79-62-22 in Boughner's two seasons at the helm, missing the playoffs both times. This season was the 16th time in 18 seasons that Florida has missed the playoffs.
Boughner's assistant, Paul McFarland, also was fired.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
BUFFALO, N.Y. — The Buffalo Sabres have fired coach Phil Housley following two underperforming seasons, and after the team extended its franchise-worst playoff drought to an eighth consecutive year.
The team made the move Sunday, a day after the Sabres closed their season with a 7-1 win at Detroit. The Sabres finished 13th in the Eastern Conference standings and joined the 2016-17 Philadelphia Flyers in becoming the second of 50 NHL teams to miss the playoffs in the same season in which they won at least 10 straight games.
The 55-year-old Housley is a Hall of Fame defenseman who spent his first eight NHL seasons playing in Buffalo but failed to restore any semblance of success to a franchise that hasn't won a playoff round since reaching the East finals in 2007.
Housley's firing comes after the Sabres endured a lengthy collapse over the final four months.
They went 2-7-1 in their final 10 games and were 16-33-8 since enjoying a franchise-record-matching 10-game winning streak that ended in late November.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Nikita Gusev, the reigning MVP of the Kontinental Hockey League, is joining the Vegas Golden Knights for their playoff run.
He signed a one-year, entry-level contract with the Golden Knights on Sunday and is expected to practice with the team on Monday.
Vegas and the San Jose Sharks were tied 1-1 in their best-of-7 series entering Sunday's Game 3 in Las Vegas.
"He'll join our group (Monday) and we'll see where it goes," Golden Knights coach Gerard Gallant told reporters. "I'm not going to make any promises either way. We'll see what happens. I like our team. I've liked our team all year. If we think we need him to put in the lineup, we'll see where it goes."
Gusev, 26, has been on the roster of SKA St. Petersburg since the 2015-16 season. He led the league in scoring this season with 82 points (17 goals, 65 assists). He was released from his contract this week after SKA St. Petersburg was eliminated in the KHL conference finals.
He has played nine seasons in the KHL and was part of Russia's gold-medal team in the 2018 Winter Olympics.
The Tampa Bay Lightning drafted him in the seventh round of the 2012 NHL Draft. Vegas acquired his rights in a trade with Tampa Bay during the 2017 NHL Expansion Draft.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
The Toronto Maple Leafs recalled goaltender Michael Hutchinson from the Toronto Marlies of the American Hockey League (AHL) on Friday.
Frederik Andersen's backup, Garret Sparks, has lost nine of his past 11 decisions and has never played in an NHL playoff game.
Hutchinson was acquired from the Florida Panthers on Dec. 29 and posted a 2-3-0 record with a 2.64 goals against average and a .914 save percentage in five appearances with the Maple Leafs when Andersen was sidelined by a groin injury. He has registered a 14-5-3 record with a 2.70 goals-against average and a .910 save percentage in 23 games with the Marlies.
Hutchinson owns a 46-43-13 record with a 2.70 goals-against average, a .908 save percentage and four shutouts in 111 career NHL games. Like Sparks, Hutchinson has no postseason experience.
Andersen is expected to start Toronto's final two regular-season games leading up to the first-round playoff series against the Boston Bruins.
Sparks has a career .898 save percentage, and the Maple Leafs are expected to go with Andersen as much as possible during the playoffs.
"I'll be ready next year," Sparks said after Tuesday's loss, per TheStar.com. "I'll be ready if anything happens."
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Rookie Miro Heiskanen scored two goals in his first postseason game, and the Dallas Stars beat the Nashville Predators 3-2 on Wednesday night in Game 1 of their first-round Western Conference series.
Heiskanen became the eighth rookie teenage defenseman in NHL history to score a goal in their first career playoff game and the first since Adam Larsson with New Jersey on May 1, 2012, against Philadelphia, according to NHL Stats. He also became the third-youngest with a multi-goal game and the youngest in franchise history with a postseason goal at 19 years, 266 days.
Mats Zuccarello also scored, helping Dallas continue its success from the regular season in Nashville, where the Stars won twice.
Roman Josi and P.K. Subban each scored for Nashville.
Game 2 of the best-of-seven series is Saturday night in Nashville.
Subban pulled the Predators within a goal with 6:36 left in regulation, beating Ben Bishop's glove with a wrister from the right circle. Nashville got a power play with 4:52 remaining, and coach Peter Laviolette pulled goalie Pekka Rinne with 3:13 left. The Predators couldn't force overtime.
The Predators came in with much more playoff experience after reaching the 2017 Stanley Cup Final and going a full seven games last spring before losing in the second round. The postseason party started as usual with at least one catfish tossed onto the ice and fans who couldn't get into the sold-out Bridgestone Arena watching outside at the park across the street.
This is the first time these Central Division rivals have met in the postseason, timely with Nashville scheduled to play Dallas in the Winter Classic in the Cotton Bowl next season. The Predators came into the playoffs having won five of their last six to win their second straight division title with a win on the final night of the season.
Dallas finished 5-1-1 to grab the first wild card in the West for the Stars' first playoff berth since 2016.
The Stars went with Bishop in net after he posted a career-high seven shutouts during the regular season. He also led the NHL with a .934 save percentage and was second in the league with a 1.98 goals-against average. He made 30 saves for the win.
Josi, who led Nashville with six points in five games against the Stars during the regular season, gave the Predators a 1-0 lead with a backhander from the slot as he skated across at 12:12 of the first.
Nashville forward Brian Boyle, acquired from New Jersey in a trade Feb. 6, sent Stars center Jason Dickinson to the locker room after a collision about 9 minutes into the first. Dickinson returned in the second.
Heiskanen tied it at 12:37 of the second with the puck deflecting off the knee of Predators defenseman Mattias Ekholm. Dallas nearly took the lead off a shot by Roope Hintz with Dickinson following, only to see Rinne stop the puck on the line with the back of his skate 15:00 into the second.
The rookie defenseman scored his second at 6:10 of the third with a similar long shot that beat Rinne with Alexander Radulov in front of the goalie. Zuccarello padded the lead off a rebound, beating Rinne between the legs at 10:39.
NOTES: Heiskanen set a franchise record with 33 points by a teenage defenseman. He also was one of only three Stars to play all 82 games this season. ... The Predators went 35-4-1 this season when scoring first and had been 24-7 all-time when scoring first in the playoffs.
UP NEXT
Game 2 in Nashville on Saturday night.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
MONTREAL — Ryan Poehling recorded a hat trick and added the shootout winner in his NHL debut as the Montreal Canadiens beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 6-5 Saturday in the regular-season finale for both teams.
Jordan Weal and Andrew Shaw also scored for the Canadiens (44-30-8), who were eliminated from playoff contention Friday night.
Goalie Charlie Lindgren, in his first game of the season, stopped 44 of 49 shots. Lindgren filled in for Carey Price, who had started the previous 13 games.
Price ended the season with a 35-24-6 record and a .918 save percentage.
Zach Hyman, Jake Gardiner, Trevor Moore, William Nylander and Kasperi Kapanen scored for the Maple Leafs (46-28-8), who will face the Boston Bruins in the first round of the playoffs. Frederik Andersen stopped 44 of 49 shots.
Poehling scored the shootout winner on Montreal's fourth shot, after John Tavares failed to win it for Toronto. The American-born Poehling, Montreal's first pick (25th overall) in the 2017 draft, recently completed his third NCAA season at St. Cloud State.
The shots were 49-49 after overtime — a Canadiens' record for combined shots in a game.
Montreal became the last team eliminated from playoff contention on Friday when the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the New York Rangers 3-2 in a shootout. The Canadiens have missed the playoffs in back-to-back seasons for the first time since 2001.
Toronto jumped to a 2-0 lead in the first period. Hyman's no-look shot went off Shea Weber's skate and into the net at 5:50. Gardiner's shot from the point was deflected by Brendan Gallagher at 8:03.
Poehling scored his first NHL goal on his fourth shift, at 11:41, going hard to the net and ramming the puck past Andersen.
Poehling, a native of Lakeville, Minnesota, scored his second of the game to make it 2-2 on an easy tap-in at 2:56 of the second period.
Poehling, who signed three-year entry-level deal last Sunday, became the fifth Canadiens player in franchise history to score at least two goals in his NHL debut. He's the first to do it since John Ferguson in 1963, and the first to record a hat trick since Alex Smart in 1943.
Montreal grabbed its first lead of the game when Weal scored a power-play goal at 7:04 of the second.
Toronto tied it less than two minutes later on Moore's second of the season on a partial breakaway.
Shaw gave the Canadiens a 4-3 lead when he completed a give-and-go with Max Domi and Artturi Lehkonen at 10:17.
Nylander made it 4-4 at 17:33 of the second on a wraparound after Lindgren overcommitted to his left.
With 11:56 left to play in a 4-4 game, the Leafs broke the deadlock when Auston Matthews found Kapanen alone in the slot for the winner.
Poehling completed his hat trick with 2:31 left.
NOTES: With an eye toward the playoffs, Toronto rested four of its top defensemen: Ron Hainsey, Jake Muzzin, Nikita Zaitsev and Travis Dermott. ... Legendary broadcaster Bob Cole called his final game after a 50-year career. . Canadiens defenseman Paul Byron was out with a wrist injury. . The Canadiens will clean out their lockers on Tuesday.
UP NEXT
Maple Leafs: Will face the Boston Bruins in first round of the playoffs.
Canadiens: Offseason.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
SUNRISE, Fla. — Roberto Luongo won 227 games during his 20s. He won 262 more games during his 30s.
And now, his 40s await.
Florida's veteran goalie — the oldest netminder and third-oldest player to appear in the NHL this season — will celebrate his milestone 40th birthday on Thursday. He's tentatively scheduled to start the Panthers' season-finale on Saturday night. Then it'll be time for Luongo to begin his rite of spring: figuring out whether to keep playing.
"I don't really want to make any decisions over the course of a season," said Luongo, who would be the 20th goalie to play an NHL game as a 40something. "Obviously, there's a lot of emotions involved with that and you want to make sure that you make the right decision for all parties involved. I still love to play the game, and we'll see where it goes."
Luongo still has three years left on his contract and hasn't given any indication that he's looking at Saturday night as a farewell. He led the Panthers' goaltender corps in starts and minutes this season — even after injuring a knee on opening night and missing a month, then being sidelined again a few weeks later with an aggravation of the same problem.
The Panthers missed the playoffs again. The franchise hasn't won a postseason series since 1996. But in the room, Luongo's voice still carries more weight than any other.
"He's a future Hall of Famer," said 22-year-old Sam Montembeault — a rookie and possibly Florida's goalie heir apparent, who grew up idolizing Luongo and now sits next to him in the locker room. "Every time I come to the rink, I'm learning from him. Before every game, he gives me advice, talks to me about the tendencies of certain players. I hope at 39 years old I can be as good as he is. I'll take that any day."
Luongo's numbers this season weren't great: His goals-against average is 3.10, the highest of any full season in his career, and his save percentage is a career-low .900. But the Panthers were plagued by defensive issues all season, which needs consideration when looking at Luongo's numbers. And he's finishing the year strong, with a 4-1-0 record in his last five starts.
"I know he wants to finish this season off the right way," Panthers coach Bob Boughner said. "And I think, after the season, he's going to relax and he's going to take some time. He's going to spend some time with his family and think about what he wants to do next year."
The Panthers plan to be active in free agency this summer. They'll likely target a top goalie on July 1 and have been high on Montembeault's potential.
Still, it would still be shocking if Florida didn't try to convince Luongo to come back.
He remains a fan favorite, the veritable face of the franchise. He's third in NHL history in wins, second all-time in saves, and has won more games with the Panthers than any two other goalies to ever don the team colors have combined. And if anyone thinks his mind is made up, Luongo turned to Twitter this week in an effort to debunk a report that health issues are soon going to usher in the end of his career.
"The only thing that I don't really enjoy is when you see something that's completely fabricated," Luongo said. "That's the part that sometimes you're not too happy about. But that being said, I've been through it many times. I handled it the best way that I could by making a joke out of it, and I'm moving on from there."
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Jake DeBrusk and the Boston Bruins are looking to build some momentum heading into the playoffs.
The Columbus Blue Jackets are just trying to get into the postseason right now.
Boston beat Columbus 6-2 on Tuesday night, ruining the Blue Jackets' opportunity to clinch a wild card in their last game at home. Instead the race will extend into the last two games of the season.
Columbus began the day in the first wild-card slot. It could have clinched a playoff berth with a win and a Montreal loss. But Montreal beat Tampa Bay, and Carolina beat Toronto.
When the dust settled, the Hurricanes were on top of the wild-card standings with 95 points. Columbus and Montreal each had 94, and the Blue Jackets hold the tiebreaker over the Canadiens.
DeBrusk had two goals and an assist and Tuukka Rask made 32 saves to help the Bruins stop a two-game slide. Brad Marchand and Karson Kuhlman each had a goal and an assist, and Marcus Johansson and David Pastrnak also scored.
"It's kind of the team we've been all year, right?" Boston coach Bruce Cassidy said. "We're a good hockey club, and we don't usually lose a lot of games in a row. And we try to take care of the business at hand and correct why we lost."
 Oliver Bjorkstrand extended the longest active goal streak in the NHL to six games with a third-period tally for Columbus, which had won five in a row. Matt Duchene also scored.
Sergei Bobrovsky had 19 stops, but allowed four goals before being relieved by Joonas Korpisalo late in the second period. Korpisalo had three the rest of the way.
"They just had really good sticks," Columbus forward Cam Atkinson said. "They checked really hard and made it really hard for all of us to break out, to get into the neutral zone and even getting into the offensive zone. They played a lot better than us."
 Boston got a bizarre break 1:58 into the game when a shot by DeBrusk bounced off the top of the net and straight into the air. On the way down, it hit Bobrovsky in the back and trickled in.
The Bruins went up 2-0 late in the first when Johansson banged in a rebound for his first goal since being acquired in a trade with New Jersey at the deadline last month.
Late in the second, Marchand tapped in a shot amid heavy traffic . DeBrusk got his second goal on a breakaway 46 seconds later, and Pastrnak made it 5-0 early in the third.
Columbus answered with back-to-back power-play goals. Bjorkstrand, who has been on a tear, converted a shot from the top of the right circle. Duchene then got his 31st of the season at 9:14, but the Blue Jackets were unable to keep the momentum.
Kuhlman followed with Boston's sixth goal with 9:32 left.
"We got what we deserved tonight," Columbus coach John Tortorella said.
NOTES: Marchand became the 10th player in franchise history to reach 100 points in a season. ... Columbus D Adam McQuaid missed his third game with an upper-body injury. ... Cassidy coached his 300th NHL game. ... Boston D Steven Kampfer played in his 200th NHL game. ... Bruins D John Moore missed his fourth game with an upper-body injury. ... Columbus broke a franchise record with its 248th goal of the season. ... Pastrnak has 12 points in his past seven games.
UP NEXT
Bruins: Visit Minnesota on Thursday for penultimate regular-season game.
Blue Jackets: Finish the season with games at the New York Rangers on Friday and Ottawa on Saturday.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Sergei Bobrovsky has the Columbus Blue Jackets on the brink of sweeping a playoff series that hardly anyone thought they could win.
The Russian goalie shut the door when the Tampa Bay Lightning made a desperate late surge on Sunday night, preserving a 3-1 win and giving Columbus a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference quarterfinal against the NHL's best team.
The Blue Jackets will try to finish the sweep — and win a playoff series for the first time in franchise history — in Game 4 at home on Tuesday night.
Matt Duchene, Oliver Bjorkstrand and Cam Atkinson scored, and Bobrovsky finished with 30 saves , 16 of them in the final period.
"You don't get to this time of year without a really good goalie to get in, and you don't win playoff games without your goalie, so I thought he stood really big in those 10, 12 minutes there where they turned it up," Columbus coach John Tortorella said. "Bob doesn't say anything. He just goes about his business. The way he prepares is second to none. We're going to need him, because there's going to be another push in Game 4."
Without their top scorer, the suspended Nikita Kucherov, and injured defenseman Victor Hedman, the Lightning, who finished with a league-best 62 wins, couldn't find any momentum until late, and then Bobrovsky rose to the challenge.
Columbus has commanded the series since falling behind 3-0 in the opening period of Game 1, only to rally to win that one 4-3. The Blue Jackets pummeled the Lightning 5-1 in Game 2, and solidly outplayed them for most of the game Sunday.
"The job's not done, but at the same time this is fun," Duchene said. "This has been unbelievable, and we want to finish the job and leave no doubt. Obviously, we have a great opportunity Tuesday at home in front of our fans. I think these fans deserve that we get the job done here at home."
The night was satisfying for Bobrovsky — he hasn't been great in the playoffs the last two seasons — and the Blue Jackets, who were 2-8 at Nationwide Arena in three previous postseason appearances. They are the only NHL team that hasn't won a playoff series.
"We don't have to overthink, we just have to enjoy tonight and prepare for another work get-together, work for each other and, yup, let's see what's going to happen," Bobrovsky said.
Ondrej Palat scored in the third period and Andre Vasilevskiy had 27 saves for the Lightning, who are facing an unexpected quick elimination.
Teams have come back from 3-0 deficit to win a playoff series on just four previous occasions. The last time was in 2014, when the Los Angeles Kings dug out of the hole in the opening series against San Jose and eventually won the Stanley Cup.
Lightning coach Jon Cooper took some solace in his team finally showing signs of getting its swagger back.
"As far as I know, we're playing Tuesday, so were still alive," he said.
After a scoreless first period, the Blue Jackets struck 1:44 into the second when Duchene was in the right place to score off a rebound . Bjorkstrand went over Vasilevskiy's head on a power play for a 2-0 Columbus lead at 8:25, with rookie Alexandre Texier picking up his first NHL assist.
Tampa Bay got on the board with Palat's goal in the third, but couldn't muster any more. Atkinson connected on an empty-netter with a minute left in the game.
NOTES: Kucherov was suspended for boarding Blue Jackets defenseman Markus Nutivaara in Game 2 on Friday. Nutivaara was out with an upper-body injury Sunday.... Columbus signed D Vladislav Gavrikov on Saturday but he's not cleared to play yet because his visa is pending. ... The Lightning's three shots in the first period were the fewest allowed in a period by the Blue Jackets in a home playoff game. ... The Blue Jackets last won a home playoff game on April 18, 2017. ... Columbus has scored four power-play goals in the series.
___
UP NEXT: Game 4 on Tuesday in Columbus.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky made 30 saves to lead Columbus to a 3-1 win over the visiting Tampa Bay Lightning on Sunday night, lifting the Blue Jackets to a commanding 3-0 lead in their opening-round playoff series.
Cam Atkinson had a goal and an assist, and Matt Duchene and Oliver Bjorkstrand tallied for the Blue Jackets, who have won 10 of their last 11 games, including seven of eight to close the regular season and earn the second wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference.
Bobrovsky stopped 16 shots by Tampa Bay in the third period, as it tried to rally from a 2-0 deficit but couldn't do so in front of a raucous crowd at Nationwide Arena.
Ondrej Palat scored a goal, and Andrei Vasilevskiy made 25 saves for the Lightning, who dropped their third straight game for the first time this season and have lost five consecutive playoff games.
The Blue Jackets can close out the series against the Presidents' Trophy-winning club in Game 4 in Columbus on Tuesday. Tampa Bay, which tied an NHL single-season record with 62 regular-season wins, will try to avoid being the first-ever Presidents' Trophy winner to be swept in the first round.
The Lightning played without a pair of major contributors: right winger Nikita Kucherov and defenseman Victor Hedman.
The NHL's leading scorer with 128 points, Kucherov was suspended one game on Saturday for a hard hit on Markus Nutivaara late in Friday's 5-1 home loss.
Hedman, the reigning Norris Trophy winner as the top defenseman, suffered an undisclosed injury, did not skate with the team on Saturday and was scratched.
Columbus opened the scoring after defensemen Seth Jones and Zach Werenski kept the puck alive in the Tampa Bay end early in the second period. Werenski fired a shot that Atkinson redirected, and the puck caromed to the opposite circle, where Duchene swept in a backhander at 1:44 for his second career playoff goal.
Columbus soon made it 2-0 after the Lightning's Ryan Callahan went off for interfering with Werenski.
Bjorkstrand took a pass from Jones and blasted a goal at 8:25, giving the Blue Jackets their fourth marker in eight power plays against the league's top penalty-kill unit.
Tampa Bay finally scored at 4:40 of the third period when Palat put in his own rebound to make it 2-1.
Bobrovsky stopped a pair of quality chances late in the last five minutes before Atkinson scored an empty-netter with one minute left to seal the win.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Tanner Pearson is experienced when it comes to replay reviews.
"It's how I scored my first NHL goal, under review. I've been there multiple times before," Pearson said Tuesday after yet another reviewed goal helped the Vancouver Canucks to a 4-2 victory over the San Jose Sharks.
Martin Jones had just stopped a shot by Vancouver's Loui Eriksson midway through the third period when Pearson stepped in to fight for the rebound, knocking the puck free and poking it into the back of the net for his second of the night.
Officials on the ice initially ruled no goal, but the call was quickly overturned.
San Jose coach Peter DeBoer then challenged, citing goalie interference. A review in Toronto determined the goal was good, saying the puck was loose.
"I just tried to throw a stick there, whether it was covered or not. It was a good goal at the end of the day," Pearson said.
The play tied it at 2. Markus Granlund put Vancouver ahead to stay with his 11th of the season at 13:39, and defenseman Troy Stecher added an empty-netter with 90 seconds left.
"To be down a goal going into the third period and come back and take the victory was a big positive note," Pearson said.
"Especially playing these playoff teams, teams that are saddling up to go to the playoffs, they're playing their best hockey or want to anyway. And if we can withstand that and beat some teams, it could carry some momentum into next year."
The 26-year-old Pearson has nine points since he was acquired in a trade with the Pittsburgh Penguins at the deadline. He has scored five times in his last seven games.
"He's a treat to have on my wing right now," center Bo Horvat said. "He's fast, aggressive, he gets on the forecheck, he's smart, he can make plays. He's a great hockey player."
Kevin Labanc and Joe Pavelski scored for San Jose (45-26-9). Jones had 19 saves.
The loss added to a tough stretch for the Sharks, who are 1-8-1 in their past 10 games and haven't had a regulation win since March 12.
"I thought we were in control of the game," DeBoer said. "Our failure was not extending the lead. We had four or five really good chances to extend the lead to 3-1 at different points and didn't do that, let them hang around and that's what happens."
The Sharks need to figure out how to play a full 60-minute game before the playoffs begin, said veteran center Joe Thornton.
"We got two kinds of practice shots at this again and then the real season starts, so hopefully we can put it together in Edmonton and then put it together against Colorado and then get ready for Vegas," he said. "But I think we can get out of this no problem."
Thornton had two assists to run his career total to 1,063, matching Steve Yzerman for eighth place on the NHL list.
"I heard that," he said after the game. "(Yzerman's) the reason I wear number 19. It's pretty cool."
Thatcher Demko stopped 33 shots for the Canucks (35-35-10), who have won three in a row.
NOTES: San Jose's Tomas Hertl extended his point streak to five games. He has three goals and four assists in that stretch. ... The Canucks handed out their team awards, giving goalie Jacob Markstrom MVP honors and star rookie Elias Pettersson the title of most exciting player. ... Linesman Lonnie Cameron worked his final NHL game. The Victoria native has been with the league for 23 seasons and officiated 1,554 games.
UP NEXT:
Sharks: At Oilers on Thursday night.
Canucks: At Predators on Thursday night.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
SUNRISE, Fla. — The Florida Panthers have hired Joel Quenneville as their coach.
The Panthers announced the move Monday morning and plan to introduce Quenneville later in the day. Quenneville is second on the NHL's all-time coaching wins list with 890 victories. He also won three Stanley Cups as coach of the Chicago Blackhawks.
The hiring also reunites him with Panthers general manager Dale Tallon, who brought Quenneville to Chicago.
Quenneville replaces Bob Boughner, who was fired Sunday after two seasons.
Quenneville becomes the 16th coach in Florida history, and will be asked to be the coach who ends the team's playoff drought. Florida has missed 16 of the last 18 postseasons and has not won a playoff series since 1996.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Glen Sather resigned as the New York Rangers' president Thursday after 19 years in the team's front office, the team announced.
He will take on a new job as a senior adviser to team owner James Dolan.
Jeff Gorton remains the general manager, and the Rangers said they will begin a search for Sather's replacement. Sather, 75, had served as the GM for 15 seasons before Gorton took that role in 2015.
"I want to thank Jim Dolan for a great partnership working together over the last 19 years, and to everyone in the Rangers organization," Sather said in a statement. "It has been a privilege to represent New York and our great fans.
"I truly believe the team is headed in the right direction and think the future is bright. I look forward to transitioning to a different role and continuing to play a part in building the next Rangers Stanley Cup contender."
Sather, who played 11 years in the NHL, coached the Edmonton Oilers during the team's glory years with Wayne Gretzky. Sather guided the Edmonton to four Stanley Cups in the 1980s while leading the team for 14 seasons, three in the WHA and the last 11 in the NHL.
He became the Rangers' general manager in 2000, and he also coached New York for part of 2002-03 and all of 2003-04. The team didn't get to the postseason his first four years in charge, then made it 11 of the next 12 years, losing the Stanley Cup Final in 2014.
The Rangers missed the playoffs last season and will not qualify this spring.
Sather told the New York Post on Thursday, "I certainly would have been happier about it if we'd won the Stanley Cup. We had the opportunity to do it, but those three overtime losses in the final in L.A. ... that's the biggest regret.
"But then also the reality that we were starting to get older -- not me personally, but the team -- and we could see that we would need to make changes to get better. That's always painful."
Dolan said in a statement, "Since he first joined the Rangers 19 years ago, Glen Sather has been singularly focused on delivering our fans a team that can consistently compete for the Stanley Cup. In doing so, Glen has become one of the most successful executives in Rangers history, and his current strategy has set the team on the right path to achieve our ultimate goal.
"Glen and I will work closely together to identify his successor. We thank Glen for his dedication to the Rangers, and to all of hockey, and look forward to his continued contributions to our team in his advisory role."
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
The Washington Capitals signed center Nic Dowd to a three-year, $2.25 million contract extension Thursday, senior vice president and general manager Brian MacLellan announced.
Dowd, 28, set a career high with eight goals this season and tied his career high with 22 points.
He recorded three game-winning goals, including the playoff-clinching game-winner on March 28 against the Carolina Hurricanes and the Metropolitan Division-clinching goal on April 4 against the Montreal Canadiens.
Dowd also ranked first on the Capitals in faceoff percentage among players with at least 100 draws taken (245 of 472, 51.9 percent).
In 195 career NHL games, Dowd has 48 points (17 goals, 31 assists).
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
TAMPA, Fla. — The Columbus Blue Jackets are making a serious bid to knock the team with the best regular-season record out of the playoffs.
Matt Duchene had a goal and three assists, Sergei Bobrovsky made 23 saves, and the Blue Jackets stunned the Tampa Bay Lightning 5-1 on Friday night to take a 2-0 first-round series lead.
Two down. Two more to go.
"It's half the wins that we need," Duchene said. "We're keeping our heads down and our eyes on the prize."
Columbus also got goals from Cam Atkinson, Zach Werenski, Riley Nash and Artemi Panarin. The Blue Jackets started the playoffs last season by winning the first two games of the first-round series with eventual Stanley Cup Washington, which won the next four games.
Mikhail Sergachev had a goal and Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 22 shots for the Lightning, who lost two games in a row just twice in the regular season. Tampa Bay matched the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings for the most wins in a regular season with 62.
"The regular season is different than the playoffs," Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. "Things just happen so fast. Alarms are going off. This is a five-alarm fire. But it's adversity and sometimes that's good that you have to go through stuff like this to see how we respond. One thing I do know about being with this group is, they find a way."
Lightning right wing Nikita Kucherov, who led the NHL with 128 points, was held off the scoresheet for the second consecutive game and picked up tripping, boarding and 10-minute misconduct penalties late in the third period.
It's likely that Kucherov will face discipline from the NHL. The league announced late Friday night that a hearing will be held Saturday regarding Kucherov's hit on Markus Nutivaara.
"I'm not going to give you any thoughts on it," Columbus coach John Tortorella said. "It's self-explanatory."
The Blue Jackets rallied from a three-goal, first-period deficit to beat Tampa Bay 4-3 in Game 1 on Wednesday night as Seth Jones scored the go-ahead goal on the power play to cap Columbus' three-goal third period.
Tortorella said he's not surprised about the 2-0 series advantage even after the early hole in Game 1.
"No, and I'm serious about that," Tortorella said. "I think we're a good team. We've gone through a lot as a team. If we're going to be successful as a team, we have to play as a team. So, even when we were down 3-0, I don't think we got away as far as how we have to play."
Duchene assisted on both of Columbus' goals during the first period and put the Blue Jackets ahead 3-0 on the power play when the center scored on the rebound at 1:28 of the second after Vasilevskiy had stopped his tip-in try.
Columbus, 28th in the NHL on the power play during the regular season, converted two of four chances and is 3 for 6 overall.
Tampa Bay's top-ranked power-play unit has failed in all five opportunities in in the series.
The Lightning got within two goals at 3-1 when Sergachev's shot went into the net off Nutivaara's skate five minutes into the third. But, Nash and Panarin scored goals over a three-minute span midway through the period.
Bobrovsky stopped Kucherov's shot and got a piece of Steven Stamkos' scoring chance that also went off the crossbar during an early second-period power play.
"We're better than we're executing," Stamkos said. "There's no sense in pouting right now. We have to find a way to win."
Duchene stole the puck from J.T. Miller along the left-wing boards and sent a pass into the low slot that Atkinson redirected past Vasilevskiy 5:15 into the game.
Werenski made it 2-0 from the blue line after Duchene won a faceoff during a power play at 11:44 of the first.
Werenski also had an assist, and fought Brayden Point.
NOTES: Duchene's four points set a team playoff record. ...The Lightning outscored Columbus 17-3 in sweeping all three games between the teams in the regular season. ... Tampa Bay D Anton Stralman (lower-body injury) sat out his third consecutive game, but took part in the morning skate. Cooper is non-committal about when Stralman will be back. ... Lightning RW Ryan Callahan and D Braydon Coburn were healthy scratches for the second straight game. ... Tampa Bay scored 325 goals in 2018-19, the most by any team in 23 years.
UP NEXT
Columbus hosts Game 3 on Sunday night.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
TAMPA, Fla. — The Columbus Blue Jackets rebounded from a dismal start to stun the team that had the NHL's best regular-season record.
Seth Jones scored the go-ahead goal on the power play to cap Columbus' three-goal third period, and the Blue Jackets rallied to beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 4-3 in Game 1 of the teams' first-round Eastern Conference playoff series Wednesday night.
"We can't get comfortable," Jones said. "Nothing is going to get easier. It's only going to get harder."
Jones made it 4-3 from the slot with 5:55 to play as the Blues Jackets erased a 3-0 deficit after the Lightning scored three times in the opening period.
With Columbus trailing 3-1 in the third, David Savard deked around Lightning defenseman Victor Hedman and scored 7:56 into the period to make it a one-goal game. Josh Anderson picked up a short-handed goal that tied it at 3 at 11:54.
The Blue Jackets became the 27th NHL team to overcome at least a three-goal deficit to win a playoff game in regulation.
Nick Foligno had the other goal for Columbus, and Sergei Bobrovsky ended up with 26 saves after struggling in the first period.
The Lightning, who matched the 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings for the most wins in a regular season with 62, got first-period goals from Alex Killorn, Anthony Cirelli and Yanni Gourde. Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 22 shots.
"Our mentality was, we wanted to outscore them tonight instead of build a lead and then shut then down," Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. "Our mentality has to be when we get in these situations is shut teams down, not to add to the lead."
Tampa Bay scored 325 goals in 2018-19, the most by any team in 23 years.
Hedman returned after missing the final four regular-season game with an upper-body injury. The Norris Trophy winner took a helmet to the face during a collision with Washington's Carl Hagelin on March 30.
Killorn stole the puck from Jones at the blue line during a power play for Columbus and put a backhander past Bobrovsky to open the scoring 4:12 into the game. Tampa Bay was tied for third in short-handed goals during the regular season with 12.
After Cirelli had a rebound goal at 11:01, Gourde's waist-high deflection of Mikhail Sergachev's shot made it 3-0 with 2:10 left in the first.
"We're just losing too many battles," Blue Jackets coach John Tortorella said of his first-intermission message. "Just the grind of the game. We have to be able to grind with them."
Foligno cut the deficit to 3-1 at 9:15 of the second on a breakaway goal after Tampa Bay's Ryan McDonagh made an errant pass in the offensive zone.
Alexandre Texier, Columbus' 19-year-old rookie who played in the Blue Jackets' final two regular-season games, skated in alone on Vasilevskiy but missed the net on a shot with 4 minutes to go in the first.
Bobrovsky stopped four shots over the final 40 seconds of the second, including a nifty glove save on Steven Stamkos.
"We don't have a chance if he doesn't play the way he played through the second and the third," Tortorella said of Bobrovsky.
Nikita Kucherov, who had an NHL-best 128 points in the regular season, was held without a point but had an in-close chance turned aside by Bobrovsky and hit the crossbar during the opening minute of the second during a power play.
"I don't know if it's a wake-up call, but we know it's a tough league to win in and we want to be better when we're up 3-0," Hedman said.
NOTES: Tampa Bay outscored Columbus 17-3 in sweeping all three games between the teams in the regular season. ... Lightning D Anton Stralman sat out with a lower-body injury, but might return during the series. ... RW Ryan Callahan and D Braydon Coburn were among Tampa Bay's healthy scratches. ... Columbus D Adam McQuaid (upper-body injury) didn't play.
QUOTABLE
"You can go through all the numbers, all the things, them against us, but when you play a 60-minute hockey game and you go through the momentum swings and the surges and maybe the big plays out of someone unexpected or a lousy play from someone unexpected, that changes games. So, that's why it's always up for grabs." — Tortorella before the game on the unpredictability of playoff hockey.
UP NEXT
The Lightning will host Game 2 on Friday night.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
DETROIT — Jeff Skinner scored twice to reach the 40-goal mark for the first time in his career and the Buffalo Sabres closed out their season with a 7-1 win over the Detroit Red Wings on Saturday.
Rookie defenseman Rasmus Dahlin had a goal and an assist, and Sam Reinhart, Conor Sheary, Zemgus Girgensons and Brandon Montour scored for Buffalo, which finished the season with 76 points. Jack Eichel and Rasmus Ristolainen each had two assists, and Linus Ullmark made 23 saves.
Anthony Mantha scored for Detroit, which finished with 74 points. Jimmy Howard stopped shots 21 shots before being pulled in favor of Kaden Fulcher in the second period. Fulcher made nine saves in his NHL debut.
The Sabres finished out of the playoffs and in the draft lottery after starting the season 17-6-2 and ranking first overall on Nov. 27. They finished the season going 3-13-2.
Buffalo's second-half collapse has raised questions regarding coach Phil Housley's future two years into his tenure with an overall record of 58-84-22. Sabres general manager Jason Botterill backed Housley in February, but that was before the team struggled down the stretch and missed the playoffs for the eighth straight year.
Red Wings coach Jeff Blashill signed a two-year contract extension on Tuesday. Despite missing the playoffs for the third straight season, general manager Ken Holland likes the way the Red Wings have competed in most games and the way young players have developed under Blashill.
Reinhart opened the scoring 3:22 into the game with his 22nd goal. Dahlin scored his ninth goal, on the power play, with 8:39 left in the opening period.
Mantha collected his career-high 25th goal on the power play with 4:49 left in the first.
The Sabres scored three goals in the second period to break the game open.
Sheary got his 14th goal at 8:37. Skinner his first of the game with 8:31 left in the middle period, and Girgensons scored his fifth goal, just 1:18 later, chasing Howard.
Skinner added his second goal of the game, 40th of the season and 200th of his career, and Montour picked up his eighth goal on a power play in the third period.
NOTES: Detroit C Dylan Larkin led the team in goals (32), assists (41), points (73) and penalty minutes (75) and became the first Red Wings player to lead in each category in the same season since Johnny Sheppard did it for the Detroit Cougars in 1926-27, the franchise's first season in the NHL. . Buffalo star C Eichel reached career highs with 28 goals, 54 assists and 82 points.
UP NEXT
Sabres: Offseason.
Red Wings: Offseason.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods won his 15th major championship at age 43 by walking away from Augusta National Sunday with his fifth Masters green jacket. Here are some other notable over-40 champions:
— Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: Helped push the Los Angeles Lakers to two NBA titles in 1987 and 1988 at the ages of 40 and 41.
— Tom Brady: The NFL quarterback Lead the New England Patriots to a Super Bowl win over the Los Angeles Rams in February at 41 years of age.
— Chris Chelios: Helped the Detroit Red Wings win the NHL Stanley Cup in 2002 at age 40.
— Dale Earnhardt: The NASCAR driver won two Winston Cup titles in 1993 and 1994 at the age of 42 and 43.
— George Foreman: He became the heavyweight boxing champion of the world in 1994 at 45 years old by knocking out Michael Moorer.
— Ben Hogan: Won three golf majors over the age of 40, including the Masters, U.S. Open and the British Open.
— Jack Nicklaus: The Golden Bear is the most obvious comparable to Woods. He won the 1986 Masters at 46 years old. It was his 18th and final major victory.
— Dave Winfield: Won a World Series with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1992 at age 41.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
The Tampa Bay Lightning carved out their own slice of NHL history during a dominant regular season in which they tied the league record for most victories.
A fourth straight loss to the Columbus Blue Jackets on Tuesday, and the Lightning will have a chapter of NHL lore all to themselves. And not the good kind.
No Presidents' Trophy winner has ever been swept in the opening round of the playoffs. Yet Tampa Bay finds itself three periods away from an unprecedented postseason exit heading into Game 4 (7 p.m. EDT, CNBC).
"It's a tough position that we're in right now," Lightning captain Steven Stamkos said. "But we have to believe that with the group we have — whoever is in the lineup or not — that we can win a game and get back to Tampa."
Sidney Crosby and the Pittsburgh Penguins face a similarly bleak outlook.
Three games against the largely unknown and decidedly unheralded New York Islanders have come and gone. The Penguins don't have a win , Crosby doesn't have a point and if Pittsburgh can't find a way to solve New York's byzantine defensive structure and red-hot goaltender Robin Lehner (7:30 p.m. EDT, NBCSN), a team that entered the playoffs in search of a third Stanley Cup in four years will head into an offseason of soul searching.
"We can't get those games back at once," Crosby said. "You've got to trust what's gotten to you to this point and what our strengths are and how we've gotten here."
Only four teams have ever climbed out of an 0-3 deficit to win a best-of-seven series, the last by the Los Angeles Kings against the San Jose Sharks in the 2014 Western Conference quarterfinals.
The Lightning have been outscored 12-2 since taking an early 3-0 advantage in Game 1 and Pittsburgh has led for all of 3:17 through nine-plus periods against the Islanders. Though Tampa Bay will get star Nikita Kucherov back after serving a one-game suspension for an illegal hit on Columbus defenseman Markus Nutivaara in Game 2, the Lightning understand their issues run far deeper than Kucherov's absence.
"There are plays to be made out there that I think we left on the table," coach Jon Cooper said. "We've just got to execute better, and that goes for everybody."
It's much the same in Pittsburgh. The Penguins own the NHL's longest active playoff streak at 13 years and counting. Not once has their stay lasted just four games. Yet they have been unable to generate any sustained pressure against Lehner, a journeyman who is flourishing at the back end of coach Barry Trotz's defense-first system.
Still, Lehner blanches at the idea that the Islanders — who have just one postseason series win since 1993 — are close to pulling off some kind of upset.
"It can't be a surprise," said Lehner, who has stopped 103 of the 108 shots he's faced so far. "This team was no fluke this year. Everyone looks and compares players and all that stuff. I look at our roster and see a lot of really good players, and I see a really good organization and great coaching and great defensemen. I see a lot of heart. It shouldn't be a surprise."
Like New York, Columbus doesn't have any recent history to draw from. Or any for that matter. The Blue Jackets have never reached the second round in franchise history. In fact, their 3-1 triumph in Game 3 marked the first time they've won as many as three games in a playoff series.
They're well aware getting the fourth will be the hardest one of all.
"We're a team that's never gotten ahead of ourselves," Columbus forward Nick Foligno said. "We're excited about the opportunity we've given ourselves but we know it's going to be the hardest game of the series."
Maybe, but for both Pittsburgh and Tampa Bay, the hard work is just beginning if they want to pull off the improbable.
Penguins coach Mike Sullivan gave his team Monday off in attempt to give his players a chance to give their legs a rest. Sullivan, who has lost just once in 10 previous playoff series in Pittsburgh, planned to use the down time to catch up on "Game of Thrones."
He knows more than anyone that if the Penguins can't get it together, summer is coming earlier than anyone expected.
WINNIPEG at ST. LOUIS (9:30 p.m. EDT, CNBC)
The home team is still searching for its first victory in this topsy-turvy series. The Blues lead 2-1 heading into Game 4 on Tuesday but rookie goaltender Jordan Binnington allowed more than four goals for the first time in his young career in Game 3. The puck slipped past the 25-year-old six times over the final 35 minutes as the Jets regained some of their swagger.
"We're building every shift, every game throughout the series," said Jets forward Kyle Connor, who scored twice in Game 3. "We're getting close to our game and it's pretty dangerous."
St. Louis star Vladimir Tarasenko shrugged off the loss.
"There's no panic here. Nobody said it was going to be easy," he said. "We'll be ready for a war next game."
SAN JOSE at VEGAS (10:30 p.m. EDT, NBCSN)
The Golden Knights took a step toward knocking the Sharks out of the playoffs for the second straight year by rolling to a 6-3 win in Game 3 to take a 2-1 lead. Vegas forward Max Pacioretty stressed his team is wary regardless of how easy they've made it look by taking Games 2 and 3 by a combined 11-6 .
"You lose the first one and you play a bad game but having that confidence come back in Game 2 and 3 and play strong so we've got to remember that," Pacioretty said. "This is an opposite scenario where we can't get too high about ourselves. We know that they are going to show up better next game and we got to be ready for it."
___
AP Sports Writer Mitch Stacy in Columbus, Ohio, and W.G. Ramirez in Las Vegas contributed to this report.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
The Vegas Golden Knights could be getting some offensive punch for their playoff push, and it could come from a player who has never played in the NHL, multiple outlets reported Thursday.
Nikita Gusev, the reigning MVP of Russia's Kontinental Hockey League, could be on his way to the United States after his current team, SKA St. Petersburg, was eliminated from the playoffs by SCKA Moscow.
Gusev, 26, had 82 points in 62 games this season to lead the KHL, according to NHL.com. The left wing scored 17 goals with 65 assists. Canada's TSN reported that Gusev's representatives were working on a release from his current contract, which officially expires at the end of April.
"I don't know much about him," Vegas head coach Gerard Gallant said, according to the league website. "(Golden Knights general manager) George (McPhee) mentioned it today. ... If he joins us, we'll see what's going to happen. Hopefully he does join us and gets some practice time in with us, but I have no idea where that's going."
Vegas trails its best-of-7 Western Conference playoff matchup with San Jose 1-0, with Game 2 set for Friday in the Bay Area. The Golden Knights are the defending Western Conference champions.
Gusev was a seventh-round draft pick by the Tampa Bay Lightning in 2012, but his rights were traded to Vegas in the 2017 expansion draft.
-Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
MONTREAL — Artturi Lehkonen delivered at a big moment for the Montreal Canadiens.
Lehkonen and Max Domi scored in the third period to lead Montreal to a 4-2 win over the NHL-leading Tampa Bay Lightning on Tuesday night, keeping the Canadiens within reach for a wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference.
"That was one of our best games tonight," coach Claude Julien said. "We moved the puck well, we were fast, good forecheck, we were buzzing around the net and extremely disciplined. If we play twice more like that, there's a very good chance we'll extend our season.
"There's not a single guy on this roster tonight that was not engaged."
Montreal moved into a tie with Columbus for the second wild card in the Eastern Conference, one point behind Carolina. The Blue Jackets lost 6-2 to Boston, and the Hurricanes rolled to a 4-1 win at Toronto.
The Blue Jackets hold the tiebreaker over the Canadiens. Each team has two games left on the schedule.
Nate Thompson and Joel Armia also scored for the Canadiens (43-29-8), who improved to 6-1-1 in their last eight games. Carey Price stopped 22 shots for his 35th win of the season.
Steven Stamkos and Cedric Paquette scored for the Presidents' Trophy-winning Lightning (60-16-4), who were playing their third game in four nights.
Third-string goalie Edward Pasquale made 41 saves for Tampa Bay in his second career NHL game. Starter Andrei Vasilevskiy was on the bench after playing Monday, and backup Louis Domingue is out with a lower-body injury.
"Clearly they've got something to chase and they were desperate," Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper said. "They played hard, they skated, and we couldn't match that. I don't know who's picking the stars but our goalie was outstanding tonight. He kept it close down the stretch.
"It's unfortunate we weren't better in front of him."
The game was tied at 2 when the Canadiens went ahead to stay with a remarkable display of hand-eye coordination. Lehkonen batted the puck out of mid-air twice to beat Pasquale at 7:47 of the third.
Domi made it 4-2 three minutes later, making the most of blown coverage by the Lightning.
"Everyone knew we had to play a full 60 minutes," said Domi, who scored his 28th of the season. "It's the best team in the league. They've had a pretty impressive year. You're never really safe against that team. That's how we played. A lot of desperation, a lot of character. Big game by a lot of guys tonight.
"When we do that, we're a tough team to beat."
It was a bad start for the Canadiens, who fell behind just 2:28 into the first on an unlucky play. Seconds after Domi turned the puck over in his own zone, Stamkos' shot from the corner bounced off Domi's skate past Price.
The Lightning were 39-3-3 when they score first.
Montreal responded by putting immense pressure on Pasquale, who looked shaky to start the game.
Thompson's first goal with the Canadiens made it 1-1 at 12:23. After Montreal's dump-in ricocheted off a referee, Paul Byron found Thompson in the slot.
The Canadiens kept pressing but Pasquale grew in confidence with every save.
The 28-year-old Toronto native denied Brendan Gallagher with his glove on a breakaway before stopping Byron on a break exactly one minute later.
The Lightning then grabbed a 2-1 lead 4:18 into the second period on Paquette's 13th of the year.
Armia tied it again on a superb individual effort at 7:32 when he split the Tampa defense and fired his own rebound past Pasquale from a tight angle.
Both goalies traded outstanding saves in the third period to keep their teams in the game. Gallagher hit the post five minutes into the frame.
NOTES: Tampa Bay was without injured defensemen Victor Hedman (upper body) and Dan Girardi (lower body). ... Rising tennis star Felix Auger-Aliassime was in attendance at the Bell Centre.
UP NEXT
Lightning: Visit Toronto on Thursday night.
Canadiens: Visit Washington on Thursday night.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
Mike Smith and David Rittich helped the Calgary Flames finish first in the Western Conference.
Yet there are still questions about how far those goalies can carry their team in the playoffs.
Smith and Rittich sounds more like a law firm than the goaltending tandem anyone expected the NHL's second-best team to have. Smith is a 37-year-old veteran with a sub.-900 save percentage seven years removed from his last playoff action, while Rittich is a 26-year-old in his first full year in the league who would be getting his first taste of the Stanley Cup playoffs.
It's not out of the realm of possibility the Flames split the duties like they did all season, and as a result they're one of several teams with goaltending questions as the playoffs begin. Winnipeg, San Jose and Toronto are among the other serious contenders with significant question marks in net at the wrong time of year to have them.
"We wouldn't be where we are without our goaltending," Calgary general manager Brad Treliving said. "We've gotten strong goaltending all year at the right time. What we've never really had is times in the year where both guys are maybe going through a little bit of a skid."
Treliving wouldn't be surprised if coach Bill Peters uses both goalies in the playoffs, a "nontraditional" strategy but not one he thinks is a problem. Smith figures to start Game 1 of the first round against Colorado on Thursday, but it's up in the air after that.
The Flames at least know they can turn to another goalie if one falters. San Jose — which had the worst team save percentage in the NHL at .889 will go with Martin Jones, but backup Aaron Dell has struggled plenty this season, too. The Sharks also open against the defending West champion Vegas Golden Knights, who have arguably the best goaltending situation in the playoffs assuming Marc-Andre Fleury is healthy.
Winnipeg will ride with Connor Hellebuyck, even though Laurent Brossoit should be back from injury to back up in Game 1 Wednesday against St. Louis, which has out-of-nowhere phenom Jordan Binnington. Hellebuyck has not been quite as stellar this year as last when he carried a strong regular season into the West final, though that run could pay dividends this time around.
"One thing that you can't substitute is experience," Jets GM Kevin Cheveldayoff said. "Once you go through something and you experience it, you have a mental template of how you need to act and what you liked about it, what you didn't like about it. So now he's got that experience. He likes to play big games."
With big games to come against the Boston Bruins, Toronto's Frederik Andersen better be up to the task for the Maple Leafs to avoid a third consecutive first-round exit. Andersen is 3-3-3 with a 3.94 goals-against average and .881 save percentage in his last 10 games and wondered if injuries have thrown off his rhythm.
"I think I've played more games and felt better" in previous seasons, Andersen said. "This year I've been banged up a little bit at times and obviously with the time I missed, it's been different."
After coach Mike Babcock said nothing is more important going into playoffs than a goaltender feeling good about himself, Andersen's response might not portend great things for Toronto. Add to that switching out regular backup Garret Sparks for Michael Hutchinson at the eleventh hour and there's Philadelphia Flyers-level goalie drama going on with the Maple Leafs.
There's no drama with the Flames, who finished second in the league in goals behind Presidents' Trophy winning Tampa Bay and are confident going into the playoffs. While Columbus acquired Keith Kinkaid from New Jersey for depth behind Sergei Bobrovsky and Joonas Korpisalo, Calgary didn't come close to such a move and will roll along with Smith and Rittich.
"That was not a discussion point for us," Treliving said. "They have a great relationship, they push each other, they cheer for each other when they're not in the net. I don't pay a whole lot of attention to things outside of our room. We just worry about ourselves inside that room, and I know our guys have a lot of confidence in both guys."
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
WASHINGTON — Nicklas Backstrom and Alex Ovechkin came out firing, the Carolina Hurricanes surged and the Washington Capitals showed why they're the defending Stanley Cup champions when it mattered most.
Backstrom and Ovechkin combined to score three goals on the first eight shots before 19-year-old rookie Andrei Svechnikov led a furious third-period comeback. But Backstrom blocked a couple of shots in the final minutes, Braden Holtby made 27 saves and Washington held on to beat Carolina 4-2 on Thursday night in Game 1 of their first-round series.
"We didn't panic," Backstrom said after his third career two-goal game in the playoffs. "We stuck with it."
One night after watching the Presidents' Trophy-winning Tampa Bay Lightning blow a three-goal lead and lose 4-3 to the Columbus Blue Jackets, the Capitals went up 3-0 at 18:05 of the first period and had the sellout crowd decked out in red fired up for the first playoff game in Washington since the franchise won its first title in June. The Hurricanes took it to the Capitals, outshooting them 29-18 and got two goals in 2:19 from Svechnikov early in the third period to cut the deficit to one.
The Capitals, who led Columbus 2-0 in each of the first two games of last year's playoffs before losing 4-3 and 5-4, had those experiences and the Lightning's loss on Wednesday fresh in their minds.
"We knew it's not over, even 15-nothing," Ovechkin said. "You can see what happened last night in a different game. It's the playoffs and you never know what's going to happen."
Another three-goal comeback almost happened in this one. Well after the "Back-to-back!" chants faded into nervous silence, Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek rebounded from allowing a soft opening goal to Backstrom by stopping Nic Dowd and Carl Hagelin on breakaways and turned aside Brett Connolly and Lars Eller on rapid-fire chances early in the third before Svechnikov got the Hurricanes on the board. Mrazek finished with 14 saves.
Svechnikov became the youngest player to score two-plus goals in a playoff game since Dainius Zubrus in 1997, but the Hurricanes failed to score on two late power plays and Eller sealed it with an empty-net goal with 36.6 seconds left. Despite the loss, the young Hurricanes go into Game 2 Saturday knowing they can go toe-to-toe with the playoff-seasoned Capitals.
"We're here. We can play with them," defenseman Jaccob Slavin said. "One of the biggest positives is that we've got a group in here that can play. Obviously they're the defending champs, they're a good team and they won last year for a reason and they know how to do it on that side. But I thought we stuck with them."
Carolina, which had 10 players making their playoff debuts after ending the NHL's longest postseason drought, didn't go away. In the Hurricanes' first playoff game since 2009, they showed a lot of the fight that allowed them to climb the standings and get in after some early-season scoring struggles.
"They're aggressive all over the ice and didn't give us a lot of time out there, but I think as a team we can play a little bit better," Backstrom said. "We got lucky there."
It's not just luck. After allowing two goals to Svechnikov he believes he should have stopped, Holtby was there to backstop the penalty kill after a hooking call on Jakub Vrana and a high-sticking call on T.J. Oshie threatened to push the game into overtime.
Backstrom — who beat Mrazek on a harmless-looking shot to open the scoring and tapped the puck in on a backdoor play on the power play — was arguably at his most important when he got his body in front of a couple of shots in the third to keep Washington ahead.
"It's one of the main things that won the Stanley Cup for us," Holtby said. "The guys didn't hesitate to get right back into doing those things. It's great to see."
NOTES: Capitals D John Carlson tied an NHL playoff record with three assists in one period. ... With his 62nd career playoff goal, Ovechkin tied Bobby Hull for 27th on the all-time list. ... Backstrom picked up his 100th career playoff point. ... Carolina All-Star C Sebastian Aho was held without a goal for a 15th consecutive game. ... D Calvin de Haan missed his fourth in a row with an upper-body injury. Coach Rod Brind'Amour said de Haan skated, but had no timetable for his return. ... The Capitals signed C Nic Dowd to a $2.25 million, three-year extension. ... The Capitals recalled top prospect Ilya Samsonov to be their third goaltender for at least the first two games of the series.
UP NEXT
The Capitals host Game 2 Saturday afternoon looking to take a 2-0 lead in a series for just the third time in the past five playoffs.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
For all the value of postseason experience, youth is off to a nice start in the Stanley Cup playoffs.
Teenage defenseman Miro Heiskanen built on his stellar rookie season in his playoff debut with Dallas, 19-year-old Andrei Svechnikov tried to carry Carolina back from a big deficit, early 20-somethings Mitch Marner and William Nylander continue to be among Toronto's best players and young Matthew Tkachuk did his part to finally win a playoff game with the Calgary Flames.
The NHL is getting younger and more skilled, and youth is being served in a big way early in the Stanley Cup playoffs. They may not get the attention like Winnipeg's Patrik Laine or Toronto's Auston Matthews, but Heiskanen and Svechnikov turned in two of the more impressive playoff performances in recent history for players before their 20th birthdays.
"Some people, it's hard and some people it's pretty easy, and those are the people it looks like it's pretty easy," Hurricanes forward Teuvo Teravainen said of Svechnikov and fellow Finn Heiskanen. "They don't stress too much. They just go out and play and have some fun."
Svechnikov became the youngest player in 22 years to score twice in a playoff game and the third teen to put up two goals in NHL postseason history after Pierre Turgeon in 1988, Eddie Olczyk in 1985 and Don Gallinger in 1943. The 2018 second overall pick will try to help Carolina even its first-round series against Washington in Game 2 Saturday (3 p.m. ET, NBC).
"There's not pressure on him," Hurricanes captain Justin Williams said. "Just go do it. Go enjoy it. Go have fun. That's what this time of year is about, and we're going to need even more from him if we're going to advance."
The Stars won in Nashville thanks in large part to Heiskanen's goal and assist in Game 1 . At 19 years, 266 days old, he became the youngest defenseman in franchise history to score in the playoffs and the fifth teenage rookie defenseman with two points in his postseason debut.
"My 19-year-old year, when it was April, I was drinking beers in my frat basement," Dallas defenseman Ben Lovejoy said. "What he is doing is just incredible. It's so special. He is so good, it is just such a pleasure to watch him play and to be on his team. He's such an asset. He's going to do this for 20 years and I can't wait to watch him."
Coach Jim Montgomery would love to see Heiskanen and 22-year-old rookie Roope Hintz play like this for several more weeks. Game 2 in Nashville is Saturday (6 p.m. ET, CNBC).
In Boston, the Bruins have to be better in Game 2 (8 p.m. ET, NBC) on Saturday after losing the series opener on home ice. Marner was a big part of that with his two-goal game, including being just the fifth player to score a shorthanded goal on a penalty shot in the playoffs.
"He's an elite player in the league at a young age," Bruins coach Bruce Cassidy said. "Years ago I remember (people saying about Wayne) Gretzky, 'Why doesn't anybody hit that guy?' Well, it's not that easy."
It's not easy to hit or stop Nylander, either. The 22-year-old Swede scored for the second consecutive game and appears to have solved his late-season dry spell.
"It's good for me," Nylander said. "I've been thinking just to hit the net and get it on it."
In Calgary, Tkachuk's two goals a series-opening victory against the Colorado Avalanche snapped his six-game goal drought, though the 21-year-old's agitating ways stuck as much as his scoring. Teammate Andrew Mangiapane, 23, also scored in his playoff debut and the West's top seed is off and running with Game 2 Saturday night in Calgary (10:30 p.m. ET, NBCSN).
"Now all of those guys have got their first game out of the way, they should get some confidence," coach Bill Peters said. "We'll get better as the series goes along."
INJURY WATCH
Even in the hockey-speak of upper- and lower-body injuries, playoff time brings an extra cloud of secrecy. Seemingly everyone is day-to-day or a game-time decision.
That's the case for Carolina defenseman Calvin de Haan, who practiced Friday after missing the past six games with an upper-body injury. Coach Rod Brind'Amour said he hopes de Haan can play "at some point" and added defenseman Jaccob Slavin was fine after getting a day off for playing a lot of minutes Thursday night.
Boston forward Jake DeBrusk is questionable with the injury that knocked him out of Game 1 against the Maple Leafs. Cassidy said if DeBrusk can't play, veteran David Backes will go into the lineup.
___
AP Sports Writers Teresa M. Walker in Nashville and Jimmy Golen in Boston contributed.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
(Reuters) - Southampton chairman Ralph Krueger has left the club by mutual consent after five years in the role, the Premier League side said on Friday.
The former German ice hockey international's contract was set to end in June and following recent talks with Southampton shareholders Jisheng Gao and Katharina Liebherr, it was agreed by all parties that the deal would not be renewed.
"Ralph represented our club with honour and integrity, and followed the Southampton way with great passion. We thank him for the foundations he has helped to build and wish him well for the future," Chinese businessman Gao said in a statement.
Liebherr said Canadian-born Krueger, 59, had laid the foundations for Southampton to be a sustainable team that put pressure on the top sides in the Premier League.
"He was a true leader who fully embodied the Southampton way, a culture which will live on strongly beyond his time as chairman," Liebherr added.
Krueger's departure comes nearly four months after vice-chairman Les Reed left the club to become the English Football Association's new technical director succeeding Dan Ashworth.
"Everything has a beginning and everything has an end. It's the journey in-between that I'll treasure. Thank you Southampton Football Club for the journey," Krueger said.
Former NHL coach Krueger's tenure at the south coast club has not entirely been smooth, as he oversaw the appointment of five different full-time managers with current boss Ralph Hasenhuttl being the latest in December.
Southampton also narrowly missed out on silverware in 2017 when they were beaten 3-2 by Manchester United in the League Cup final. They then just managed to avoid relegation last season.
Saints, who are 17th in the table with 33 points from 32 games, said they would provide more information about their future leadership structure at the end of the season.
 (Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Christian Radnedge)
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
RALEIGH, N.C. — The last time Justin Williams played in a postseason game in Raleigh, he skated off with the Stanley Cup.
The stakes aren't quite that high — yet — for the Carolina Hurricanes, but the third game of their best-of-seven series with the Washington Capitals on Monday night does bring his career full circle.
Now, "Mr. Game 7" is ready for Game 3 — the first playoff game at PNC Arena in 10 years — and hoping to keep the Hurricanes from falling into a three-games-to-none hole.
"The anticipation of it is what's getting people really excited, because a lot of people don't really know what it is," Williams said. "Everyone's telling them how great (playoff hockey in Raleigh) is and how fun it is, and it is, but really it's something you've got to experience for yourself. It being a while now, you can kind of sometimes forget and fall into that trap that we've talked about of normalcy. But it's everything it's cracked up to be."
Williams had a lot to do with creating the reputation that had gone dormant during that decade-long drought. As a 24-year-old in 2006, he helped the Hurricanes win the Stanley Cup, and his empty-net goal in Game 7 stands as one of the enduring images in club history. He had been traded to Los Angeles when Carolina made its only postseason appearance since, in 2009.
In the second year of his return, he wants to make more memories during a series he called the "perfect storm" because of his strong ties to both franchises.
He spent just two seasons in Washington from 2015-17, and lost in the second round both years, but Capitals players and executives credit him for helping to lay the foundation of the team that last year won the Cup for the first time.
"He spoke when he needed to. But mostly it was his play," Capitals winger T.J. Oshie said. "Any time the game, the pressure rose or the game got more intense, Justin — or 'Stick,' as we call him — he always seemed to be able to rise to the occasion. And he always seemed to elevate his play to match that pressure. And that's something we all tried to emulate, you know. Last year some guys did a great job of doing that. But it is something special and something not every guy can do. And he's one of those guys who can do it."
Carolina brought him back last season on a two-year deal, and then selected him as captain this season.
"I don't think leadership skills ... can be taught. You just be yourself," Williams said. "Fortunately, I've been around a lot of great leaders, so I've taken little bits and pieces of what I like about them and kind of make it my own. One of the more important things is, you can't fake being a leader. You can't manufacture being a leader. You just are. And you've got to try and do what you can. You can't be bashful about it. You believe in yourself, or you don't."
His teammates say that role suits him, and he's instilled a level of accountability that perhaps wasn't always present during a drought that ranked as one of the longest in NHL history.
He also backed up his occasionally harsh words on the ice, ranking second on the team with 23 goals and third with 53 points while helping Carolina close the regular season by going 31-12-2 in its final 45 regular-season games to climb from last place in the division to a wild-card playoff berth.
Yet he also kept things light, masterminding the "Storm Surge" postgame celebrations that took the league by storm.
"Just how vocal he is, how he demands a lot out of everybody ... he is not afraid to hurt anybody's feelings," forward Jordan Martinook said. "I think he's figured out a very, very good way, and he's a very good motivator. Very good guy to follow because he's done it so many times, and to see his success in the playoffs and even our ... stretch to the end of the year. You see the goals he scores, they're big goals. It's an easy guy to jump on his back."
Williams has thrived throughout his career in Game 7s, owning the NHL record with 14 points in those games and scoring seven goals to tie the mark held by 15-year veteran Glenn Anderson. His teams are 7-1 in those games — hence, the "Mr. Game 7" nickname.
The Hurricanes have a lot to do to force this one-sided series to a seventh game, but if it should get to that point, they'll be glad they have Williams, just as the Capitals were during their two years with him.
"He has the right blend of leadership, have fun, compete," Capitals GM Brian MacLellan said. "He really senses the tone of an organization, of a team, where they are at in the games and playoffs and he provides — and he did provide us with that leadership, and he is doing the same thing at Carolina now, so he's just a great guy to have on your team."
___
AP Hockey Writer Stephen Whyno in Washington contributed to this report.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
LAS VEGAS — After losing in the Stanley Cup Final last June, the Vegas Golden Knights looked to bolster their forward depth by trading for Max Pacioretty and signing Paul Stastny before the season. At the trade deadline, they dealt for Mark Stone.
Those moves that formed one of the most productive lines in hockey paid dividends Sunday night.
Stone had three goals and two assists, and the Golden Knights beat the San Jose Sharks 6-3 to take a 2-1 lead in their first-round playoff series.
It was Stone's first career hat trick.
Stastny had two goals and three assists, and Pacioretty had a goal and an assist as Vegas captured another high-scoring matchup with San Jose. Defenseman Shea Theodore had three assists and Marc-Andre Fleury made 25 saves.
"We know we have more to give and we want to contribute for our team," said Stone, who leads the league with six goals in the playoffs. "Obviously, we're adding matchup problems for other teams and we just want to continue to play our game and not stray away from it. As a whole, we're trying to make sure we're playing consistent."
Stastny, who leads the league with six assists in the postseason, is tied with Stone for the league lead with eight points. Pacioretty sits third with six points.
"I think we're creating a lot of chances off turnovers, and that's the key to our success," Stastny said. "We're not the fastest line, but we have good sticks, we have good anticipation, we know how to read each other."
The Golden Knights and Sharks scored 15 times while splitting the first two games in San Jose. Game 4 of the best-of-seven series is Tuesday night in Las Vegas.
Kevin Labanc, Logan Couture and Tim Meier scored for San Jose, and Martin Jones stopped 34 shots.
After getting outplayed in Game 1, the defending Western Conference champs have used their physicality to dominate the last two games, outhitting the Sharks 46-31 in Game 2 and 56-42 in Game 3.
The Golden Knights also used fast starts to set the tone, scoring a goal inside the first 36 seconds of each of the three periods.
Vegas got off to a fast start when Nate Schmidt went blue line to blue line with a perfect feed through traffic to Stone, who beat Jones with a backhand just 16 seconds into the game. Pacioretty's wrist shot from the top of the right circle at 12:16 extended Vegas' lead to 2-0.
Stastny accounted for both of Vegas' goals in the second as the Knights opened a 4-1 lead, including one just 21 seconds into the period, when he grabbed a rebound between the circles and drove a wrist shot past Jones. Later, he got into a perfect position to redirect a feed from Stone into the net at 16:04.
Stone scored just 36 seconds into the third, when he buried a rebound into a wide-open net, pushing Vegas' lead to 5-1.
"We found a way to get a couple goals early, and we carried the momentum a lot," Vegas coach Gerard Gallant said. "It was a physical game, we played real disciplined and that's what my main concern is, we didn't take a whole lot of penalties tonight and I thought we played a great game."
San Jose quieted the crowd and put Vegas on its heels when it rallied in the third with a pair of goals to get within two.
Couture got his second of the series when his pass intended for Joe Pavelski was tipped in by Vegas defenseman Brayden McNabb. Then, Meier knocked in a rebound after Gustav Nyquist's shot was stopped, making it 5-3 with a little more than 14 minutes remaining.
"I don't think we had enough participants playing at a high enough level. ... The one thing about our group is they don't quit," San Jose coach Peter DeBoer said. "They haven't, regardless of the scoreboard. That's something we can hang our hat on. (But) we didn't do enough to win tonight."
Stone got his third goal when took a pass from Pacioretty, skated in alone and went forehand-backhand to beat Jones with a little more than six minutes to play.
NOTES: The Golden Knights signed forward Nikita Gusev to a one-year, entry-level contract and expect the Moscow native to join the team for practice on Monday. Gusev, 26, had a Kontinental Hockey League-high 82 points in 62 regular-season games. During the KHL playoffs, he recorded 19 points, which ranked second in the league. ... The Golden Knights are the 13th team in NHL history, and third in the last 30 years, to score in the opening minute of back-to-back playoff games. ... Vegas is the first franchise in NHL history to hold a lead in each of its first five all-time playoff series. ... San Jose LW Michael Haley left in the second period after injuring his left ankle on a blocked shot and did not return.
UP NEXT
Game 4 is Tuesday night in Las Vegas.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
WASHINGTON — A rat falling out of the arena hallway ceiling during the Carolina Hurricanes' warmup game of soccer was just a precursor to a wacky afternoon of playoff hockey.
Long after the dead rodent was removed, Game 2 between the Hurricanes and Washington Capitals included a questionable ejection for a check to the head, a shot off one goalie's mask and another that went in off the other goalie's backside. It fittingly ended with an overtime goal from an unlikely source that sent the defending Stanley Cup champions into a wild celebration around the team's most popular player.
Veteran leader Brooks Orpik scored 1:48 into overtime Saturday to give Washington a 4-3 victory and a 2-0 lead over Carolina in the first-round series. His fourth goal in his 151st playoff game was his third winner, and Orpik became just the 11th defenseman in NHL history with two postseason overtime goals.
"I'm probably not counted on for too many goals, but I think if you want to have the long runs, you need everybody kind of chipping in and doing things they don't normally do," Orpik said. "Always feels good when the team comes out on top."
The Capitals came out on top thanks to Alex Ovechkin's two perfect passes, a 5-on-3 penalty kill and a stick shortage by Carolina that allowed Evgeny Kuznetsov to find Orpik for his goal. Afterward, owner Ted Leonsis quipped, "Just like it was drawn up."
There was no way to script the strange happenings that unfolded on and off the ice. Perhaps it was an omen for things to come when the ball used in the Hurricanes' pregame soccer ritual knocked a rat down from the ceiling.
"I saw that," Carolina's Sebastian Aho said. "First time I've seen it. Kind of odd."
Then the game happened. Just like Game 1, the Capitals jumped out to an early 2-0 lead — this time on goals by Nicklas Backstrom and T.J. Oshie — but this time the Hurricanes didn't wait until the third period to come back.
Lucas Wallmark scored late in the first after teammate Saku Maenalanen brushed Braden Holtby, which Capitals coach Todd Reirden challenged for goaltender interference. It held up because the NHL situation room and referees determined the contact wasn't significant enough to disallow the goal.
"Playing the position, you know that that's interference," said Holtby, who made 25 saves. "But there's a point in hockey where you've just got to battle, too. I'm not going to complain about a call or no-call. I know that doing that is giving me the best chance to stop that puck. We move on."
Things only got stranger in the second period. Less than a minute after exiting the penalty box, Hurricanes forward Micheal Ferland hit Nic Dowd while bent over and was given a five-minute match penalty for an illegal check to the head and ejected.
After officials conferred and decided to make it a five-minute major, coach Rod Brind'Amour screamed at referee Steve Kozari that it was a clean hit, pointing to his hip to emphasize Ferland made mostly hip to shoulder contact. Dowd left to go through concussion protocol but returned.
"To be honest with you, I let up," said Ferland, who added he doesn't expect to be suspended. "I could have finished with my shoulder, but I didn't. I came, hit him with my butt. I thought it was a clean hit. I don't agree with the call."
During the ensuing power play, a one-timer from defenseman John Carlson hit Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek on the right side of his mask and knocked it off. Mrazek winced in pain but did not get pulled for concussion protocol and stayed in the game.
"It caught me a little bit on the chin there," said Mrazek, who made 29 saves. "When I fell, I didn't have the mask on and I hit the ice pretty hard with my face. That was the worst."
The worst moment for Holtby came when Aho ended a 15-game goal drought by banking the puck off him from a bad angle. Wilson and Jordan Staal traded third-period goals, and Mrazek stopped Carlson in the final seconds of regulation.
That only set the stage for Orpik's heroics. After Hurricanes defenseman Brett Pesce lost his stick and got one from forward Teuvo Teravainen, the Capitals had the opening they needed to take a 2-0 series lead and players mobbed Orpik to celebrate the father figure's clutch goal.
"There's really no better guy to score an OT winner," Wilson said. "We were pumped up, and he deserves it. Huge goal for us."
NOTES: Ten of the Capitals' last 14 first-round games went to overtime. ... With his 101st playoff point, Backstrom moved ahead of Daniel Alfredsson into sole possession of fourth place among Swedish players. ... Hurricanes D Calvin de Haan missed his fifth game in a row with an upper-body injury. ... Maenalanen replaced Greg McKegg in Carolina's lineup. ... Capitals C Lars Eller played after missing practice Friday for upper-body maintenance.
UP NEXT
Game 3 Monday night in Raleigh is the Hurricanes' first home playoff game since May 26, 2009.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
CALGARY, Alberta — Nathan MacKinnon came through in the clutch for the Colorado Avalanche — and again showed why he's one of the NHL's best players.
A force all night, MacKinnon scored 8:27 into overtime as the Avalanche tied their first-round series with the Calgary Flames at a game apiece with a 3-2 win.
After Philipp Grubauer stopped Michael Frolik at one end, the puck went up ice where a pass from Mikko Rantanen sprung MacKinnon down the left wing and the 23-year-old Avs center fired a perfect shot into the top corner on Mike Smith.
"Mikko and I tried to get ahead of their (forward) that was on me," MacKinnon said. "I got a step and Mikko made a great pass — a little saucer pass. I managed to get another step on that weak-side D to get a shot off and I put it where I wanted to."
The snipe left his teammates, coach — and even the opposition — in awe.
"The guy's a world-class player," Smith said. "If you give him too many open looks, he's going to find a way to get one past you, sooner or later. He ripped that one pretty good there. Obviously, you'd like to get a piece of it, but it is what it is."
MacKinnon tied for the team lead in shots on goal with seven and he led both teams with 12 shot attempts. His 26:26 in ice time was third behind teammates Tyson Barrie (28:13) and Flames captain Mark Giordano (28:55), both defenseman.
"I've said it before: Nate's a superstar and that's what superstars do," linemate Gabriel Landeskog said.
Grubauer finished with 35 saves, and Avalanche coach Jared Bednar said his team could easily be down two games if not for his goaltender's performance.
"First of all, (Grubauer) makes the save and it's a big save because of the time and the score and you're in overtime and he made a lot of big saves tonight, as did Smith, but to give us that save at that time," Bednar said. "Then we get up the ice and (Rantanen) and (MacKinnon) execute unbelievably and we get the goal."
Matt Nieto and J.T. Compher also scored for the Avalanche.
Rasmus Andersson and Sean Monahan replied for the Flames.
The series continues Monday night in Colorado.
"They seemed hungrier than us. Seemed like they wanted it more than us," said Flames left winger Sam Bennett, who had two assists. "No one is happy with the way we played in the first couple periods. (Smith) bailed us out too many times to count. He's been playing great and we've got to do a better job in front of him."
Colorado tied it at 2 at 17:21 of the third period on Compher's first career playoff goal, the result of some fortuitous bouncing of the puck.
Rantanen's cross-ice pass banked off the skate of Gabriel Landeskog, then off both skates of Flames defenseman Travis Hamonic, before Compher shoveled a backhand over a sprawled Smith.
Monahan had given Calgary its first lead of the night at 12:27 of the third on some similar puck luck.
After winning a faceoff in the offensive zone, Monahan went to the front of the net. Johnny Gaudreau's initial shot didn't get through to the net, nor did Bennett's shot attempt right after — but Monahan's third try went into the top corner, over the glove of Grubauer.
The Avs were the better team most of the night, especially in a scoreless first period, outshooting Calgary 15-10 and taking it to the Flames physically.
But like in Game 1 when he posted a 26-save shutout, Smith was excellent once again.
The Avalanche's best chance in the opening 20 minutes was Landeskog's breakaway off TJ Brodie's giveaway, in which Smith denied him when he tried to go five-hole.
In the third period with the score 1-1, Smith stared down Landeskog again on a breakaway and again denied him, this time with a blocker save. Chants of "Smitty! Smitty! Smitty!" were heard throughout the night from the crowd just like in the series opener.
In a second period of momentum swings, Calgary tied it at 1 at 12:26 on Andersson's first career playoff goal. On a power play, Bennett backed out front from behind the net before zipping a no-look backhand pass across to Andersson, who had an empty net.
"We have to be better," Giordano said. "We have to be a lot harder to play against and we know that. A tough way to lose, but there's these moments all the time in the playoffs and you've got to deal with them and move on."
Nieto gave the Avs their first goal of the series when he stripped the puck from Brodie at Colorado's blue line and raced away on a breakaway, picking the top corner over Smith's glove.
"We've always had the confidence in this room and tonight shows it," Nieto said. "Down late or running into a hot goalie, we know we can win games against this team. We're thrilled to be going back 1-1 and get back in front of that Pepsi Center crowd and try to get a lead in the series."
NOTES: Smith finished with 36 saves, while Grubauer had 35. .. Calgary went 1 for 5 on the power play, while the Avs' power play, which ranked No. 7 in the regular season, went 0 for 4 to fall to 0 for 8 in the postseason. ... Both teams used identical lineups from Game 1. ... Smith entered with a career .947 save percentage in the playoffs, making him the NHL's all-time leader.
UP NEXT
The series moves to Colorado for Game 3 on Monday night.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
OTTAWA, Ontario — Pierre-Luc Dubois scored two goals and the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the Ottawa Senators 6-2 in the regular-season finale for both teams Saturday.
The Blue Jackets, who clinched a playoff berth with a 3-2 shootout win over the New York Rangers on Friday, finished 47-31-4 and secured the second wild card in the Eastern Conference. They'll face the Tampa Bay Lightning in the first round of the playoffs.
Alexandre Texier, Riley Nash, Oliver Bjorkstrand and Markus Nutivaara also scored for the Blue Jackets. Joonas Korpisalo made 27 saves.
Thomas Chabot and Mikkel Boedker scored for the Senators (29-47-6). Anders Nilsson stopped 17 shots after replacing starter Craig Anderson, who was pulled midway through the first after giving up three goals on seven shots.
The Senators finished last in the NHL standings for the first time in 23 years.
Nilsson started the third period with a great save on Cam Atkinson, which seemed to fire up his teammates briefly.
The Senators cut the Blue Jackets' lead to 4-2 as Boedker, standing at the top of the crease, took a pass from Chris Tierney and sent a wrist shot past Korpisalo.
But a bad turnover by Boedker led to Bjorkstrand's second goal, and Nash scored into an empty net.
Trailing 3-0, the Senators finally got on the board midway through the second as Chabot beat Korpisalo with a backhand shot.
The Blue Jackets regained their three-goal lead when Texier scored his first career goal in just his second game.
Columbus opened the scoring three minutes into the game. Dubois took a pass from Artemi Panarin and beat Anderson with a high shot.
Midway through the first, Bjorkstrand slipped a puck through Mark Borowiecki's legs and dished it off to Nutivaara for his fifth of the season. Just over a minute later, some bad defensive coverage allowed Dubois to dig the puck out of the crease and beat Anderson for his second goal of the game.
NOTES: Ottawa's Ben Harpur missed his third straight game. ... The Blue Jackets opted to make goalie Sergei Bobrovsky a healthy scratch, giving him the night off.
UP NEXT
Blue Jackets: Face the Tampa Bay Lightning in first round of the playoffs.
Senators: Offseason.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
Jon Cooper and Todd Reirden were coaching at the All-Star Game in January when the topic of winning the Presidents' Trophy came up.
With Cooper's Tampa Bay Lightning cruising toward winning it as the NHL's best team, he asked the Washington coach how to handle it. Reirden was less than helpful.
"I said: 'Good luck! I don't know what you're talking about,'" Reirden recalled with a grin.
Finishing at the top of the league comes with expectations, but only two of 13 Presidents' Trophy winners in the salary cap era have gone on to win the Stanley Cup and none since 2013. If this is the burden to bear for Tampa Bay, the Lightning seem OK with it.
"Nobody in there is sitting there thinking now we've got a path to the Stanley Cup finals," Cooper said. "As a matter of fact, actually the odds are probably grossly against us just in the sense there's going to be 15 other teams. Any time you go in somewhere and say, 'OK, we're going to pick this team' and somebody's got the field, usually the field is the teams to take."
Taking the field this time means betting against a team that was 21 points clear of anyone else in the league, has the top scorer and likely MVP in Nikita Kucherov, a Vezina Trophy candidate in goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy and looks built for this moment. Of course, so did the Nashville Predators last year.
When the Predators clinched the Presidents' Trophy against the Capitals, who won it the previous two years, winger Filip Forsberg said: "We've seen especially here that the trophy doesn't mean that much going forward."
It didn't, and Nashville lost in the second round to Winnipeg in seven games.
The Capitals have won the Presidents' Trophy three times in the Alex Ovechkin era — under coach Bruce Boudreau in 2010 and Barry Trotz in 2016 and 2017 (with Reirden as his top assistant) — and lost in the first or second round each time.
"Obviously it comes with a little bit of pressure," Capitals center Nicklas Backstrom said. "You are the best team in the regular season and you obviously have more work to do I think than just regular season."
Boudreau, now with Minnesota, said the pressure stems from constant questions players face because "they can't away from it" more than a feeling of internal superiority. But nine years after getting beaten by red-hot goaltender Jaroslav Halak and Montreal in the first round, Boudreau vividly remembers a Game 6 feeling of, "Oh my God, if we lose this game!"
They did. Tampa Bay defenseman Braydon Coburn remembers it clearly because it helped pave the way for his run to the Cup Final with Philadelphia. He and his Lightning teammates are keenly aware of other teams' missteps in the same spot they find themselves in now.
"You look to the past," Coburn said. "You try to take them as lessons. I don't think you try to psych yourself out in any sort of way. But I think you look back to that Washington series against Montreal, I remember it very well. It was Halak. He played out of his mind. That's the thing about playoffs is you never know what's going to happen."
What should happen based on 1,271 regular season games is Steven Stamkos raising the Stanley Cup over his head in June. But that was also the case for the San Jose Sharks in 2009 with Joe Thornton and Patrick Marleau in their primes, and they, too, lost in the first round.
"It's one of those things you can't let down your guard," said Marleau, now with Toronto. "You can't feel comfortable for a second. It's a brand new season. Anything can happen. There's bounces, inches. It's a game of inches. Just not to take your foot off the gas. If anything, it's the time to really bear down."
The Lightning clinched the NHL's best record with several games left in the season, which takes away some of urgency on the ice — in a bad way.
"We weren't playing playoff hockey — we were playing high-end, regular-season hockey, which is a big difference," said Minnesota's Eric Fehr, who was on that Capitals team in 2010. "It's just the intensity of taking the puck to the net and not playing as much on the perimeter and not trying to make fancy plays. You see the high-end teams in the regular season, they're making fancy plays, they're scoring 3-on-2 goals. You get to the playoffs and it's point shots, tips and battles in front of the net. That's the difference is you have to be playing that style of game come playoff time."
Tampa Bay was the highest-scoring team in the league, so it's an adjustment to playoff-style hockey but something the group is used to after reaching the Eastern Conference finals last year. Forward Adam Erne said the "sour taste" from a seven-game loss to Washington is a motivation, and more experienced teammates are trying to impart some knowledge about what to do next.
"Just keep a present mind frame," said defenseman Ryan McDonagh, who won the Presidents' Trophy with the New York Rangers in 2015. "That' been the best thing with this group all year is we've just focused on each day at a time and not look at big picture and what's going on around us, what's going on with other teams."
All well and good, but previous top teams have done the same and not been able to live up to the billing. Carolina captain Justin Williams played on the 2016 and 2017 Capitals Presidents' Trophy winning teams and acknowledged maybe it played a role in players gripping their sticks a little too tightly in the playoffs.
"It's really hard to get in and there's really no clear favorites once you get in," Williams said. "But playing the favorite is a little bit different with the expectations for you to win."
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
PITTSBURGH — Casey DeSmith has seen it at every stop of his hockey career. Practice comes, the focus shifts to defending and the guys paid lavishly to score goals take their foot off the gas.
"I've had people on every single team I've ever played on like that, obviously," the Pittsburgh Penguins goaltender said. "It just comes with the territory of being a gifted offensive player."
There is an exception. Then again, there almost always is when it comes to Sidney Crosby.
The Penguins captain — whose resume is stuffed with six 100-point seasons, a pair of scoring titles and two Hart Trophies as the NHL's Most Valuable Player — has long been respected and feared for his creative playmaking.
It's his leadership and conscientious approach to every aspect of the game while stewarding the Penguins through a rocky season to a 13th straight playoff berth that has put the 31-year-old into the conversation for the Selke Trophy, given annually to the NHL's top defensive forward.
Both the metrics and the eye test heading into Pittsburgh's first-round matchup with the New York Islanders provide a compelling case.
Crosby won more than 55% of his faceoffs this season, his best mark since 2009-10. He blocked 43 shots and took away the puck from an opponent 54 times, the second-highest total of his career. After a talk with coach Mike Sullivan last fall, Crosby occasionally found himself killing penalties, a role he embraced and would have happily kept doing if not for concerns over his workload.
Still, there are situations when Sullivan knows he needs the star he calls "the best 200-foot player in the game" to go do his thing. Nursing a one-goal lead late against Carolina on March 31, Sullivan sent Crosby over the boards over and over and over as the clock dwindled. Pittsburgh held the Hurricanes at bay and emerged with a crucial 3-1 win.
"He was out there three of the last five minutes, defending the six-on-five, defending the five-on-four," Sullivan said. "He was the one guy that was dominant in the faceoff circle. I thought his defensive effort was on display."
Hall of Famer Sergei Fedorov was the last player to capture the Selke while scoring 100 points, doing it for Detroit in 1996. Crosby has an outside shot at joining that exclusive company when the league awards are announced in June. Not that Crosby, who has never finished higher than seventh in Selke voting, seems to care.
"I'm still trying to figure it out, to be honest with you," Crosby said. "I think it's still something, you're trying to ingrain those habits and be in the right positions. I think experience helps that. You realize that it can help you offensively to be good defensively too. It's not as bad as sometimes you think it needs to be. I think that's part of it."
Or maybe more than a part of it.
Pittsburgh center Matt Cullen, at 42 the league's oldest player, has carved out a 21-year career due in large part to his defensive expertise. Around the time he hit 30, Cullen knew he needed to find different ways to contribute beyond trying to put the puck in the net if he wanted to stick around. He sees Crosby taking some of the same steps not out of necessity but by choice, which makes it all the more impressive.
"I think Sid's the best example of a guy that has that growth mindset as far as he's never completely satisfied with where he's at," Cullen said. "He's always evolving and learning and adapting to different situations."
Cullen likened Crosby to Michael Jordan, who was named to the NBA's All-Defensive team nine times in addition to winning 10 scoring titles and leading the Chicago Bulls to six championships.
"Sid's accepted all the challenges of playing against the top lines and then going out and scoring, too," Cullen said.
Forward Jared McCann arrived in a trade with Florida on Feb. 1. The 22-year-old grew up admiring Crosby from afar. The up-close look has been even more revealing. McCann will find himself transfixed on Crosby's No. 87 during film sessions, studying the subtle aspects of Crosby's play in Pittsburgh's end looking for tips that might translate to his own game, be it positioning, physicality or a sense on knowing where the puck is headed before it gets there.
"I kind of catch myself moving a little bit too much, kind of circling too much," McCann said. "I see him stop his feet and then read the play, see where it's going to go and then go. I feel like as a young player, as much as you can watch him in the defensive zone, you should learn from him."
Coach Peter Laviolette has spent more than a decade trying to find ways to deal with Crosby during stops in Carolina, Philadelphia and now Nashville, with only occasional success.
"Never once did it cross my mind to think maybe we could put somebody on the ice and take advantage of him," Laviolette said. "It's just that I think his offense overshadows (his defense) sometimes because he's an elite offensive player."
Which Sullivan believes separates Crosby from annual Selke contenders like Boston's Patrice Bergeron and Los Angeles' Anze Kopitar.
"He's the most dangerous guy with the puck," Sullivan said. "He also has the ability to score goals at the other end of the rink in quick strike better than any of the other players in conversation."
Opportunities that typically begin with Crosby in the defensive zone, doing the dirty work others won't in an effort to produce the highlights few can.
"His ability to win faceoffs, his puck protection, his strength on the puck, his ability to control the game, all of those things, as important as they are on the offensive side of the puck, they're just as important on the defensive side," Predators defenseman PK Subban said.
"When he decides, he's going to come back into the zone, get the puck and take it out of the zone, he's going to do it."
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Seth Jones' power-play goal late in the third period capped a thrilling rally, as the Columbus Blue Jackets erased a three-goal deficit and stunned the host Tampa Bay Lightning 4-3 on Wednesday in the opening round of the Stanley Cup Playoffs.
Jones scored his second career playoff goal when he rang a shot off the crossbar with 5:55 to play. He took a slick pass from Artemi Panarin and roofed the power-play goal to complete a spree of four unanswered goals, three of which came in the third period.
Josh Anderson had a goal and an assist, and Nick Foligno and David Savard also tallied for the Blue Jackets, who lost all three regular-season meetings with the Lightning by a combined score of 17-3.
In matchup of the two top goaltenders in games won this season, Columbus' Sergei Bobrovsky made 26 saves while Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 22 shots for the Lightning.
Tampa Bay, who won the Presidents' Trophy and tied an NHL single-season record with 62 wins, led 3-0 after one period on goals by Alex Killorn, Anthony Cirelli and Yanni Gourde.
The Lightning blitzed the Metropolitan Division club in the opening 20 minutes.
Tempers flared early when Tampa Bay's Dan Girardi blindsided Brandon Dubinsky at 2:55 of the first period. The two fought in the neutral zone, and Columbus' Scott Harrington grappled with Cedric Paquette, who ended up pinned to the ice by Harrington.
However, Tampa Bay struck first when Jones bobbled the puck at the blue line on the power play, and Killorn stole it, raced in on a breakaway and beat Bobrovsky for a short-handed goal at 4:12.
Bobrovsky's weak pass around the boards from behind his goal allowed Erik Cernak to get off a long blast, and Cirelli, who scored 19 goals in his rookie season, flipped in the rebound at 11:01.
Gourde tipped in a shot from the slot by Mikhail Sergachev at 17:50 for the three-goal advantage.
Foligno started the rally, beating Vasilevskiy on the blocker side off a breakaway for his seventh playoff marker at 9:15 of the second period to trim the deficit to 3-1.
Savard's wrister on a quick rush at 7:56 of the third period cut it to 3-2.
Dubinsky's double-minor for high-sticking Paquette at 9:23 had the Blue Jackets playing defensively on the penalty kill, but Anderson tied it with a short-handed goal at 11:54, setting the stage for Jones' winner.
--Field Level Media
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
WASHINGTON — Valtteri Filppula scored twice in his return from injury, Robin Lehner stopped all 29 shots he faced and the New York Islanders beat the Washington Capitals 3-0 in each team's regular-season finale Saturday night to clinch home-ice advantage in the first round of the playoffs.
Coach Barry Trotz's team came into the game against his former team needing at least one point to secure a second-place finish in the Metropolitan Division, just behind Washington. The Islanders will open the playoffs at home for the first time since 1988 against either Pittsburgh or Carolina.
The Capitals will face either the Penguins or Hurricanes in the first round as they try to repeat as Stanley Cup champions. Washington had nothing left to play for in game 82, so center Nicklas Backstrom, right wing T.J. Oshie and defenseman John Carlson rested and backup goaltender Pheonix Copley started and made 18 saves.
New York faced the possibility of starting on the road at Pittsburgh, making this a meaningful game. First-round games will take place at the renovated Nassau Coliseum, while any subsequent rounds would be at Barclays Center in Brooklyn.
Filppula and Lehner helped set up a raucous atmosphere for Game 1 at the Coliseum by taking care of business against the Capitals.
In his first game back after missing the past eight with a hyperextended left elbow, Filppula scored on a breakaway early in the second period. The Finnish center added his 17th goal of the season in the third on a redirection.
Lehner made a handful of key saves on the penalty kill to pick up his career-high sixth shutout of the season.
A year after being worst in the NHL in goals allowed under previous coach Doug Weight, the Islanders won the William M. Jennings Trophy for the fewest goals allowed.
NOTES: Matt Martin scored an empty-net goal with 2:33 left to seal it. ... Islanders D Johnny Boychuk was back in the lineup after being a healthy scratch Thursday. ... Capitals LW Alex Ovechkin finished with 51 goals, which was two more than Edmonton's Leon Draisaitl for the league lead with the Oilers in action in Calgary later Saturday. ... F Dmitrij Jaskin played his first game since Jan. 17. ... A pregame tribute was held on the one-year anniversary of the Humboldt Broncos junior hockey team's bus crash that killed 16 people and injured 13.
UP NEXT
The Islanders and Capitals are each four playoff wins away from a second-round showdown between Trotz and former associate coach Todd Reirden.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
SUNRISE, Fla. — Travis Zajac scored the winning goal on the power play in overtime, lifting the New Jersey Devils to a 4-3 victory over the Florida Panthers on Saturday night.
Nathan Bastian scored twice in regulation, Pavel Zacha also scored a goal and Mackenzie Blackwood stopped 37 shots for the Devils in the season finale for both teams.
On the winner, Zajac fired a shot from the high slot that got past Roberto Luongo at 4:04 of 4-on-3 overtime.
Aleksander Barkov, Jonathan Huberdeau and Mike Hoffman scored for the Panthers. Roberto Luongo made 23 saves.
Barkov's goal, his 35th of the season, was his 95th point, surpassing Pavel Bure as the Panthers' single-season leader. Barkov also had an assist.
Trailing 3-1, the Panthers scored two goals in the final 3:25 to tie the score at 3.
Huberdeau closed the gap to 3-2 when Evgenii Dadonov passed from behind the net to Huberdeau in front, and Huberdeau poked in the puck for his 30th goal.
Hoffman tied it at 3 on his shot from the high slot that beat Blackwood with 1:25 left in the third. Hoffman recorded his 300th NHL point on the goal.
Trailing 2-0, Barkov skated in and fired the puck under Blackwood's pads with 8:02 left in the second to make the score 2-1.
The Devils took a 3-1 lead when Zacha easily got past defenseman Aaron Ekblad and flipped the puck into the net with 5:31 left in the second.
Bastian opened the scoring on his first goal at 1:27 in when his one-timer beat Luongo on the glove side.
Bastian stretched the lead to 2-0 when Egor Yakovlev made a nice centering feed and Bastian redirected the puck into the net at 7:41 of the second.
The Devils had a goal overturned when Drew Stafford was called for a high stick after he deflected a shot by Kenny Agostino into the net in the first period.
NOTES: The Panthers have three 30-goal scorers (Hoffman, Barkov and Huberdeau) for the first time in franchise history. ... F Jamie McGinn and C Denis Malgin each played Saturday. McGinn was a healthy scratch the past four games, and Malgin the past two. ... Devils forward Brett Seney played his first game since Feb. 23 after being recalled from AHL Binghamton. ... Zacha celebrated his 22nd birthday Saturday.
UP NEXT
Both the Devils and Panthers head into the offseason after failing to make the playoffs.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
Mark Stone and Paul Stastny each had five points as the Vegas Golden Knights took a 2-1 lead in their first-round Stanley Cup playoff series with a convincing 6-3 victory over the San Jose Sharks on Sunday night in Las Vegas.
Stone notched his first-ever hat trick, while Stastny's five-point night was the first of his career. Both set a team record for points in a playoff game. Max Pacioretty added a goal and an assist, and Shea Theodore also had three assists for Vegas, which improved to 8-3 all-time in playoff games at T-Mobile Arena.
Marc-Andre Fleury finished with 25 saves for his 77th career playoff victory, moving him into a tie with Mike Vernon for seventh place on the NHL's all-time list.
Kevin Labanc, Timo Meier and Logan Couture scored for San Jose, which surrendered goals within the first 36 seconds in all three periods. Martin Jones finished with 34 saves.
The Golden Knights wasted little time taking a 1-0 lead, as Stone scored just 16 seconds into the opening period, the fastest goal to start a playoff game in Vegas history. Nate Schmidt hit Stone with a stretch pass down the middle of the ice from the Golden Knights' blue line, and Stone then beat Jones with a backhand to his glove side.
Pacioretty made it 2-0 with a power-play goal 12 minutes later after Evander Kane was called for a double-minor high-sticking penalty for cutting William Carrier. Five seconds later, Pacioretty fired a wrist shot from the top of the right circle that beat Jones on his glove side.
San Jose cut it to 2-1 near the end of the period when Labanc jammed in Joe Thornton's pass from behind the goal inside the right post for his first goal of the playoffs.
The Golden Knights extended their lead to 4-1 in the second period behind a pair of goals by Stastny, the first on a rebound from the top left circle just 21 seconds into the period, and the second on a power play when he redirected a crossing pass from Stone past Jones' stick side.
After Stone made it 5-1 with another backhand goal just 36 seconds into the third period, San Jose cut it to 5-3 with goals by Couture and Meier 54 seconds apart.
Stone, who had five goals in 18 regular-season games with Vegas after coming over in a trade-deadline deal with Ottawa, sealed the win his third goal of the night and sixth in three playoff games when he beat Jones with another backhand at the end of a give-and-go with Stastny.
--Field Level Media
DOWNLOAD STORY
ADD TO COLLECTION
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
LOS ANGELES — Ralph Lawler called his 3,229th and last regular season game for the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday night.
They even obliged his trademark Lawler's Law, which states the first team to 100 points wins.
Montrezl Harrell's dunk gave the Clippers that many points near the end of the third quarter and they went on to beat the Utah Jazz 143-137 in overtime.
The eighth-seeded Clippers open the playoffs this weekend against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.
Lawler, who turns 81 on April 21, plans to end his 60-year broadcasting career whenever the Clippers are eliminated from the playoffs. He's handled their games for 40 years.
"I love you people," he told the crowd that gave him a standing ovation during a halftime ceremony.
He noted many of them, including comedian Billy Crystal, have been coming since the Clippers played at the old Los Angeles Sports Arena in "the darkest days any franchise could have only imagined. God love you for still being here."
The recently named Hall of Fame broadcaster was joined by friend and former on-air partner Bill Walton to call the game at Staples Center.
"It's been 20 years or so since we worked together. I got to say two or three words in the first half," Lawler told the crowd. "Reuniting with him has been a special night."
Before the game, the team unveiled an on-court logo honoring Lawler, and the players wore special shooting shirts thanking him.
Team owner Steve Ballmer donned the same black-and-white "Thank you Ralph!" T-shirt over a long-sleeved shirt.
Fans signed an oversized card outside the arena and the first 10,000 received Lawler bobbleheads, which recite some of his signature phrases such as "Bingo!" and "Oh me, oh my!"
"This is a night the likes of which I could never have possibly imagined," he said.
The Clippers made 12 3-pointers, with fans holding up placards reading "Bingo" and shouting it out on each one.
The team estimated that Lawler has traveled 1.67 million miles, called games in 91 cities in six countries, talked over 500,000 minutes on the air, and had a career longer than eight NBA franchises.
He's one of a few announcers who have called games in the four major U.S. pro leagues: the NFL's Chargers, MLB's Philadelphia Phillies, NHL's Philadelphia Flyers and NBA's Clippers and Philadelphia 76ers.
He's received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and three Emmy Awards.
Lawler met his wife, Jo, after leaving Philadelphia for San Diego to call Clippers' games and she was a season ticketholder.
The team presented them with a trip to Australia and New Zealand.
The Clippers announced the creation of a scholarship in Lawler's name at his alma mater, Bradley University in his hometown of Peoria, Illinois.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
DALLAS — Tyler Seguin broke open a scoreless game with two third-period goals, and the Dallas Stars beat the Minnesota Wild 3-0 to take the Western Conference's top wild-card spot Saturday night.
Ben Bishop made 22 saves for his career-high seventh shutout of the season, and Tyler Pitlick also scored for the Stars. Dallas will open the postseason against Nashville.
Seguin scored the first goal on the power play with 17:16 to play. He took a pass from Alexander Radulov high in the left faceoff circle and sent a slap shot over Minnesota's Alex Stalock and into the upper-left corner of the net.
The Wild had stopped 22 straight power plays over nine games.
For the second goal, Seguin's team-high 33rd of the season, he took the rebound of a shot by Jamie Oleksiak in front and backhanded the puck past Stalock six minutes later.
Pitlick scored off another rebound with 7:59 remaining.
Bishop recorded the 31st shutout of his career. He finished the season with career bests in save percentage (a league-leading .934) and goals against average (1.98).
Stalock was far busier, stopping 41 shots.
Dallas came up empty during a scoreless first period despite a 14-7 advantage in shots on goal. Each team had one unsuccessful power play. The Stars also led in shots with the man advantage, 4-0.
In the scoreless second period, Dallas had an even bigger advantage in shots at 20-5, but only the Wild put the puck in the net. Stars coach Jim Montgomery challenged Greg Pateryn's slap shot from the blue line that went past Bishop 18 seconds before intermission. The video review showed that Minnesota was offside on that possession.
Stalock turned away good chances by Jamie Benn and Alexander Radulov, a 2-on-1 break by Seguin and Andrew Cogliano and a flurry of shots with two minutes left in the period.
Bishop stopped a close-range shot by Kevin Fiala during the final minute.
Wild defenseman Nick Seeler and Dallas center Radek Faksa energized the second period with two scuffles. They were penalized for roughing at 7:05. After leaving the penalty box, they went back right back in for fighting at 9:11.
NOTES: Fiala had the unusual distinction of playing in 83 games this season - 64 for Nashville, with another 19 after being traded to the Wild. Playing in all 82 games were Minnesota's Marcus Foligno, Ryan Suter, Jonas Brodin and Jared Spurgeon, and the Stars' Miro Heiskanen, Esa Lindell and Tyler Seguin. Marcus Pettersson played in 83 contests for Anaheim and Pittsburgh. ... Minnesota LW Zach Parise (illness) missed the season's final two games. ... Dallas successfully killed 15 of 16 penalties in the final six games.
UP NEXT
Wild: Can look forward to June 21, the first day of the NHL Entry Draft in Vancouver.
Stars: Begin the Stanley Cup playoffs at Nashville. Dallas was 2-0-1 on the Predators' home ice this season.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Columbus Blue Jackets extended their postseason mastery of the Tampa Bay Lightning, beating the NHL's best team 3-1 on Sunday night and moving to within a game of sweeping the playoff series.
Matt Duchene, Oliver Bjorkstrand and Cam Atkinson scored, and Sergei Bobrovsky fended off a desperate third-period charge to finish with 30 saves for the Blue Jackets, who took a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven, first-round series. Columbus will try to win a playoff series for the first time in franchise history in Game 4 at home Tuesday night.
Without their top scorer, the suspended Nikita Kucherov, and injured defenseman Victor Hedman, the Lightning, who won a league-best 62 games in the regular season, couldn't find any momentum until late in the final period, and then Bobrovsky rose to the challenge. Ondrej Palat scored for Tampa Bay.
Columbus has commanded the series since they fell behind 3-0 in the opening period of Game 1, only to rally to win that one 4-3. They beat the Lightning 5-1 in Game 2, and solidly outplayed them for all but a few minutes on Sunday.
GOLDEN KNIGHTS 6, SHARKS 3
LAS VEGAS (AP) — Mark Stone had three goals and two assists, and Vegas beat San Jose to take a 2-1 lead in its first-round playoff series.
Paul Stastny collected two goals and three assists as Vegas captured another high-scoring matchup with San Jose. Max Pacioretty had a goal and an assist, defenseman Shea Theodore had three assists and Marc-Andre Fleury made 25 saves.
The Golden Knights and Sharks scored 15 times while splitting the first two games in San Jose. Game 4 of the best-of-seven series is Tuesday night in Las Vegas.
Kevin Labanc, Logan Couture and Tim Meier scored for San Jose, and Martin Jones stopped 34 shots.
JETS 6, BLUES 3
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Kyle Connor scored twice, Patrik Laine had a goal and an assist, and Winnipeg beat St. Louis to climb back into its playoff series.
Winnipeg dropped the first two games by one goal, but got back on track in St. Louis. Kevin Hayes, Brandon Tanev and Dustin Byfuglien also scored, and Connor Hellebuyck made 25 saves.
Game 4 of the best-of-seven series is Tuesday night in St. Louis.
David Perron, Vladimir Tarasenko and Alexander Steen scored for the Blues, and Jordan Binnington made 23 stops.
ISLANDERS 4, PENGUINS 1
PITTSBURGH (AP) — Jordan Eberle scored for the third straight game, Robin Lehner stopped 25 shots and New York stunned Pittsburgh to take a 3-0 lead in its best-of-seven, first-round playoffs series.
Brock Nelson added his second goal of the playoffs, Leo Komarov scored the first postseason goal of his career and Anders Lee also scored for the Islanders, who have pushed the star-laden Penguins to the brink of elimination.
Garrett Wilson scored Pittsburgh's lone goal, a first-period deflection past Lehner that gave the Penguins just their second lead of the series.
Matt Murray finished with 32 saves for the Penguins, who need a win in Game 4 on Tuesday to avoid being swept for the first time since the 2013 Eastern Conference finals against Boston.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Viktor Arvidsson scored the go-ahead goal at 3:33 of the third period, and the Nashville Predators won their second straight Central Division title by rallying from an 0-2 deficit to beat the Chicago Blackhawks 5-2 Saturday night.
With St. Louis beating Vancouver 3-2 earlier Saturday, the Predators needed two points against Chicago to win the Central or risk going from division champs to possibly third if Winnipeg finished off with a win at Arizona later. The Predators now are assured of home-ice advantage through at least the first two rounds of the playoffs.
The Predators struggled mightily when allowing the first goal all season, but they've have rallied from two-goal deficits in each of their past two games.
Arvidsson set the franchise record with his 34th goal of the season 22 seconds into the man advantage. His wrister from the left circle beat goalie Cam Ward glove-side and gave Nashville its first lead of the game, which Arvidsson celebrated by jumping in the air behind the net.
Filip Forsberg and Nick Bonino each had a goal and had an assist, and Dante Fabbro scored his first NHL goal for Nashville, which now has won five of six. Colton Sissons added an empty-netter with 2:09 left.
Pekka Rinne made 31 saves to finish 30-19-4, his eighth season with at least 30 wins.
Brendan Perlini and Drake Caggiula each scored for Chicago, which lost three of its final five.
Nashville hadn't won at home on a Saturday night since Dec. 15, and the Predators' last home win in regulation on a Saturday night was Dec. 1 in a 5-2 win over Chicago when they scored three goals on their first four shots.
This time it was the Blackhawks scoring on their first shot with Perlini's wrister from the left circle beating Rinne's glove at 2:58 of the first period. Artem Anisimov hit a post at 5:00, then Caggiula made it 2-0 Chicago with a wrister off an assist from Patrick Kane midway through the period.
Fabbro, who joined the Predators last week after wrapping up his junior year at Boston University, pulled the Predators to 1-0 with the first goal of his career at 9:07 of the second. Fabbro's wrister from the left circle went over Ward's glove. Then Ward made another big save, coming out to stop a partial breakaway by Arvidsson 90 seconds later.
Seconds after a power play ended, Forsberg tied it up with a slap shot for his 28th this season with 1:10 left in the second.
Nashville put it away with three goals in the third. Bonino's goal came inside the final minute with the celebration already well under way.
NOTES: Fabbro now is the 181st player to score a goal in Nashville history. ... Forsberg has 28 points (14 goals, 14 assists) in his last 36 games. ... Nashville improved to 5-8-1 when tied after two periods. ... Rinne tied Miikka Kiprusoff (623) for second-most all-time in games played by a goalie from Finland. ... Nashville is 12-25-5 when allowing the first goal and 9-19-2 when trailing after one period.
NEXT UP
Blackhawks: Locker clean-out.
Predators: Hosting a first-round game.
___
___
Advertisement
We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
Advertisement
Supported by
By Seth Berkman
In many ways, there has never been a better time to be a member of the United States women’s national hockey team.
Two years after the players threatened to boycott the world championship tournament over pay equity, U.S.A. Hockey, the national governing body, is paying them more than ever, about $71,000 each annually.
On the ice, the American women have continued to exceed the achievements of the men’s national team and won their second Olympic gold medal in a stirring final against Canada.
Members of the team have skated in the skills competition at N.H.L. All-Star weekend and served as analysts for N.H.L. television broadcasts. Participation in the sport among girls and women is skyrocketing.
But halfway through the labor contract with U.S.A. Hockey signed in March 2017, as the national team begins its pursuit of a fifth straight world championship in Finland this week, its players wonder whether the future of their sport is as bright as the present. Those concerns grew after the Canadian Women’s Hockey League, one of two professional leagues in North America, announced Sunday it would fold in May.
Although the American players negotiated gains in salary and travel and medical benefits two years ago, the “groundbreaking support” for girls and women’s hockey promised by U.S.A. Hockey in the contract has been slow to develop. The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group created in the deal has been largely invisible. Minimal promotion for the team and a lack of organizational diversity in U.S.A. Hockey also raise concerns from players and female alumni that little has changed.
“People are drooling for women’s hockey,” forward Kendall Coyne Schofield said in an interview late last year. “But the product we deliver isn’t being shown. There’s been a lot of lost opportunities, a lot of opportunities that haven’t been capitalized on.”
Those opportunities included high-profile media appearances before the Olympics like a national magazine feature, a major network documentary series and other live television offers, which U.S.A. Hockey declined, according to three people with direct knowledge of those projects. After the Olympics, some players were unaware that they were eligible for four-figure bonuses offered by Hershey’s for winning the gold medal.
U.S.A. Hockey’s executive director, Pat Kelleher, was not made available for an interview to discuss the women’s national team.
After the Olympics, the women’s team embarked on a weeklong national media tour, but players were frustrated that there were no plans for a post-Olympic exhibition tour. In an interview late last year, forward Hilary Knight lamented that the team disappeared when its popularity was at its highest.
Because of the talent disparity between North American teams and the rest of the world, there are not many viable opponents for the Americans, and Canada’s cooperation is necessary. Last month, the two nations finally staged a three-game exhibition series, with one game in the United States. An announced crowd of 9,048 fans attended the game in Detroit, which was also broadcast live on NHL Network.
But other avenues to increase exposure do not need Canadian co-signs, like merchandising. Nike, the official apparel supplier of U.S.A. Hockey and a company that champions equality in advertisements, does not sell jerseys of American women’s players or products specifically featuring female players. Neither does U.S.A. Hockey’s online store.
Coyne Schofield, one of the players who has been featured by the N.H.L. since the Olympics, is inundated with inquiries from parents about where they can buy apparel with her name. She has memorized a response with detailed instructions on how to purchase customized men’s items, even down to the six-week shipping time frame. That’s how Knight obtained replicas of her jersey for her family.
“That alone is so degrading,” Coyne Schofield said. “There’s no reason why anybody shouldn’t be able to go on usahockey.com and buy a Hilary Knight jersey, my jersey. Right now, women’s hockey is not accessible to consumers. It needs to be accessible in every fashion.”
Nike, which recently unveiled soccer kits for the 2019 Women’s World Cup that for the first time were specifically designed for women’s teams, did not respond to requests to discuss its women’s hockey apparel.
As with the jerseys, the American players handle much of their promotion themselves. Despite repeated requests from athletes, U.S.A. Hockey has not created social medial channels dedicated solely to the women’s team, as U.S. Soccer has. Olympians like Coyne Schofield and Monique Lamoureux-Morando worked as analysts on NHL Network and NBCSN. The players have lobbied the N.H.L. for more support for women’s hockey, particularly for its professionals, whose salaries range from $2,000 to $10,000.
The Women’s High Performance Advisory Group was supposed to be a conduit of influence for the players. Over the past two years, U.S.A. Hockey declined repeated requests to discuss the group.
The New York Times confirmed the participation of at least five women in the group, including hockey executives and members of the 2018 Olympic team. Multiple people with knowledge of meetings said the group was stagnant in its first year and only recently began having meaningful conversations. One player said she was unsure if she was allowed to talk about the group.
In March, the N.H.L. and the N.H.L. Players’ Association announced the formation of their own Female Hockey Advisory Committee with the goal “to accelerate the growth” of hockey for girls and women in North America, and named 11 members, all women. They include Michele Amidon, a former director for women’s hockey at U.S.A. Hockey, and several former members of the U.S. national women’s team.
But women’s representation remains lacking in U.S.A. Hockey’s leadership.
Of all American Winter Olympic governing sports bodies, U.S.A. Hockey has the lowest percentage of women on its board of directors (17.58 percent) and is the worst at reaching its benchmark for female hires, according to the most recent data available from the United States Olympic Committee.
There are full-fledged councils within U.S.A. Hockey devoted to youth, adult and junior hockey, but none specifically for girls and women. Decisions related to girls’ and women’s hockey are administered by the youth council, which is led by a man and where only four of the 25 members are women. There are also no women on the organization’s marketing council.
Proponents for U.S. women’s hockey have long struggled to have their voices heard. Lynn Olson became the first woman hired to work for U.S.A. Hockey’s girls and women’s section back in 1988, but it served only as an advisory panel to the board of directors.
During her tenure, which ended in 2013, Olson described U.S.A. Hockey as being run like a “good old boys club.” She was sometimes denied funds to hold meetings for her panel, so she put up her own money. Olson also said she tried to make the section a full-fledged council, which would provide more influence, writing up legislation that never passed.
Olson noted that more women wanted to be involved in U.S.A. Hockey, but had a hard time getting elected to positions of power. “You need to change the minds of males in the room,” she said.
Veteran leaders of the hockey team expressed faith that the culture could change under Kelleher, who was named U.S.A. Hockey’s executive director in April 2017. In recent months, he met with players in Maine, Chicago and Michigan.
“We hadn’t had that in the past,” Coyne Schofield said. “For me, it was a huge first impression.”
The United States national women’s soccer team, an inspiration for the hockey team in its fight for equality, was so frustrated with the lack of progress on a number of issues that the players recently filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against its governing body, U.S. Soccer.
Knight said she did not yet foresee a repeat of the fraught 2017 negotiations that led to the boycott threat and a fracture between U.S.A. Hockey and the women’s team that is still being repaired.
U.S.A. Hockey seems to be aware of the need for more gender balance. Don Gould, chairman of the girls and women’s section, said at the federation’s annual meeting that the organizational culture must evolve to advance opportunities for girls and women, socially and in sport.
“This objective cannot be realized without first creating an environment that values them equally at every level,” Gould said. “Whether we work on the bench or in the boardroom, this is our first obligation.”
But nine of 10 members of U.S.A. Hockey’s committee that nominates candidates to become officers of the organization are men.
“There are great people at the top that care about women’s hockey, but you absolutely don’t have the numbers to have a real change,” said Angela Ruggiero, one of the most accomplished American hockey players and a former member of the International Olympic Committee Athletes’ Commission. “We have an extremely long way to go.”



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Minnesota raced off to a big lead against Winnipeg on Tuesday, and then started watching the scoreboard to see if its faint playoff hopes would survive another night.
The Wild did their part, but their six-year playoff streak came to an end.
Zach Parise scored twice in his return from injury, Devan Dubnyk made 32 saves and the Wild rolled to a 5-1 win against the Jets.
Victor Rask, Joel Eriksson Ek and Marcus Foligno also scored for Minnesota, which entered play five points behind Colorado for eighth in the Western Conference. The Avalanche trailed 2-0 at home against Edmonton before rallying for a 6-2 win that knocked the Wild out of the playoff contention.
"It's tough," Foligno said before the Colorado game ended. "We played a really good game. I mean, too little, too late in the season in general. We had a lot of chances at home to play like this, and it catches up to you obviously. It's such a hard league and you never want your fate to be in someone else's hands or some other team's hands."
Jacob Trouba scored a short-handed goal for Winnipeg, but goaltender Eric Comrie surrendered three first-period goals in his first start of the season and fifth of his career. Comrie finished with 23 saves.
The Jets have lost four of five to slip into a tie with Nashville for the lead in the Central Division. The Predators won 3-2 in Buffalo on Tuesday night. Winnipeg and Nashville each have two games remaining.
The recent stretch led to a players-only meeting after the game.
"You want to get a team on the same page, you want to get every guy pulling on the rope in the same direction," Jets captain Blake Wheeler said. "Sometimes the best therapy for that is having a conversation about it."
Coach Paul Maurice said "it's always a good thing" that his players took the initiative for a meeting.
"We're not very proud right of our game right now and it's the style of the game that we're playing," Maurice said. "So, they recognized that clearly and thought it was a good time to have a chat about it."
Parise, who leads Minnesota with 28 goals, missed four games with a lower-body injury, and the Wild lost three times.
It didn't take long for Parise to show Minnesota what it missed.
Defenseman Greg Pateryn collected a loose puck behind the Jets' goal and centered to Parise in front. Parise got a stick on the puck while tied up with a defenseman and it went flying high into the air. Comrie lost track of the shot and it fell off his back and into the goal.
"Fluky, fluky goal, I guess, but at the time you'll take anything," Parise said.
Another fortunate bounce went Parise's way three minutes later when the puck slid toward the Winnipeg goal after he tipped it in from the blue line.
Minnesota's Eric Staal charged the puck but ended up skating over it while defended by Bryan Little. The puck slid to a streaking Parise, who beat Comrie at 12:16.
Rask scored from a wide angle with another deflection off Comrie's back before the first intermission. Eriksson Ek made it 4-0 midway through the second with his seventh goal of the season.
"That was three goals that shouldn't have gone in, I think, and haven't gone in in the past," Wild coach Bruce Boudreau said. "I think that helped. Ek's shot, I don't know if anyone would have stopped. But hey, you're not looking a gift horse in the mouth when you get a chance to score five."
NOTES: Winnipeg forward Brandon Tanev left with an upper-body injury. Tanev has played in all 80 games this season and has 14 goals and 15 assists. ... Parise had first multigoal game of the season. ... Minnesota won each of its five meetings with Winnipeg this season.
UP NEXT
Jets: Play at Colorado on Thursday.
Wild: Host Boston on Thursday.
___
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
DENVER — Already in full desperation mode, the Colorado Avalanche found an even higher level.
It may have just saved their season.
Nathan MacKinnon and Tyson Barrie scored a minute apart to ignite a four-goal second period as the playoff-chasing Avalanche rallied for a 6-2 win over the Edmonton Oilers on Tuesday night.
"It just kind of shows how much character we have in this room," Barrie said of the comeback. "We made some great plays."
Down 2-0 after the opening period to an Edmonton team already eliminated from postseason contention, the Avalanche surged in the second. MacKinnon started the scoring spree with his 40th goal of the season, while Barrie, Alexander Kerfoot and Colin Wilson soon joined in. All four goals were scored in a 7:08 span.
Kerfoot and Sven Andrighetto added insurance goals in the third.
Colorado extended its lead over Arizona to four points for the final wild-card spot in the West. Both teams have two games remaining.
"We see the standings. We got through tonight and that's huge," Kerfoot said. "It's all we can do."
Goaltender Semyon Varlamov shook off some early rust in his first appearance since March 15 and finished with 27 saves. He was stepping in for a sizzling Philipp Grubauer for the second game of a back-to-back.
"When they scored that last goal, I was kind of upset," Varlamov said. "I knew it's an important game and it doesn't matter how the first period goes. I had to stay focused the whole game.
"I appreciate that the coach gave me a chance to play. I'm sure it wasn't an easy decision because I haven't played for a long time."
Milan Lucic and Darnell Nurse had goals for Edmonton, while Mikko Koskinen stopped 23 shots.
"You get pushed in the second and we didn't have an answer for it," Nurse said. "They had more intensity in those last 40 minutes than we did."
Koskinen had a spectacular save early in the second period with Colorado on the power play. On his back, Koskinen reached his arms over his head and just so happened to deflect MacKinnon's shot with his glove at the goal line.
Soon after, MacKinnon and the Avalanche broke the game open.
With his goal, MacKinnon joined Joe Sakic (three times) and Milan Hejduk (twice) as the only Avalanche players to reach the 40-goal mark for a season since the franchise relocated to Denver.
Kerfoot knocked in the go-ahead goal late in the second period. It was his second straight night with a big tally. In St. Louis on Monday, Kerfoot tied the game in the final minute of regulation to secure a valuable point before Colorado lost in a shootout.
"I'm just trying to contribute," Kerfoot said. "You're not always going to put up points, but it's nice when it happens."
Lucic scored his first goal since Jan. 19 and Nurse added another in a dominating first period by Edmonton. The Oilers couldn't sustain the momentum.
"Frankly there are a lot of people burned out from chasing," Edmonton coach Ken Hitchcock said. "So every mistake is magnified and it just seems like when you have to climb, climb, climb, it looks like we are tired doing the climbing."
Connor McDavid and the Oilers were eliminated from the postseason Monday. McDavid said that night after a loss in Vegas his frustration level was high in missing the playoffs for a third time in his four seasons.
Hitchcock understands.
"If you're frustrated it usually gets replaced sometime during the summer by determination," Hitchcock said in an interview posted on the team's website. "When you put as much into the season as a lot of these players put in and you don't have success, you'd hope they'd be frustrated, and angry and disappointed and whatever other emotion you want to go there."
NOTES: Edmonton F Ryan Nugent-Hopkins had two assists. ... Avalanche F Matt Nieto had an assist in his 400th NHL game. ... Colorado had 13 different players pick up at least a point. ... Avs captain Gabriel Landeskog had two assists.
UP NEXT
Oilers: Host San Jose on Thursday.
Avalanche: Host Winnipeg on Thursday.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
BUFFALO, N.Y. — Nashville goaltender Pekka Rinne prefers the excitement of a tightly contested race for the Central Division title during the final week of the season.
"I'm actually happy that all these games matter and all these games have a lot of meaning," Rinne said after the Predators stayed in the mix with a 3-2 win over the Buffalo Sabres on Tuesday night. "We have a lot on the table, and that's the best part of it: It's going to prepare us for the playoffs."
Rinne made 26 saves and Ryan Johansen scored 6:32 into the third period to help the Predators improve to 6-2-1 in their past nine.
With 96 points, Nashville moved two ahead of idle St. Louis and into a tie for the division lead with Winnipeg after the Jets lost 5-1 at Minnesota.
On the line is home-ice advantage, which goes to the first- and second-place teams when the playoffs open next week.
"Within this locker room, we have goals and things we're striving for, and it's about continuing to move in the right direction," Johansen said.
Johansen was in an ideal position at the right time in the third. Viktor Arvidsson's shot from the right side caromed off the end boards and directly to Johansen, who backhanded the puck into the open side.
P.K. Subban added a goal and an assist for Nashville, and Craig Smith also scored.
Jeff Skinner got his career-best 38th goal and Kyle Okposo also scored for Buffalo, which dropped to 0-7-1 in its past eight. The skid is the Sabres' longest since dropping 14 in a row from Dec. 29, 2014, to Jan. 30, 2015. Buffalo also dropped to 1-13-2 in its past 16.
Frustration is setting in for the Sabres, who complained they were on the wrong end of two key rulings.
Smith's game-opening goal was allowed to stand when replays were inconclusive in showing whether his stick was too high when deflecting in Subban's shot from the blue line.
Then there was a quick whistle that negated a goal for Buffalo's Conor Sheary in the second period. The play was stopped while a delayed penalty was called against Nashville even though no Predators player appeared to have control of the puck.
Coach Phil Housley repeatedly said the Sabres got robbed on both calls.
He said the Sabres watched replays that clearly showed the puck hitting Smith's stick. But he was more frustrated with Sheary's disallowed goal.
"The call that's sort of mind-boggling to me is the delayed penalty call," he said. "The ref's sitting right in the corner. It's unfortunate."
Carter Hutton finished with 32 saves.
"That's kind of the way it's been. When it's not going well, it's just not going well," Okposo said. "But I liked the way that we responded."
Buffalo eventually tied it at 2 when Skinner scored with 5 seconds left in the second. Skinner snapped an eight-game goal drought and scored for just the second time in his past 22.
Subban made an impressive play to put the Predators up 2-1 in the opening minute of the second period.
Sabres rookie defenseman Rasmus Dahlin skated through the neutral zone and attempted to flip the puck off the boards and into the Predators' zone. Subban, however, batted the puck out the air to set himself up for a breakaway up the right wing. He then blasted a shot from the circle that beat Hutton inside the far post.
Subban defended Dahlin's performance by noting he has made similar mistakes through his career.
"He's what, 18? I've made way worse turnovers," Subban said of Dahlin, the No. 1 overall selection in last year's draft. "You can tell he's going to be a stud in this league for a long time."
NOTES: Predators LW Austin Watson returned for the first time since he was suspended by the NHL more than two months ago for alcohol abuse. Watson missed 27 games with Nashville and had four goals in two games during a conditioning stint with AHL Milwaukee before being recalled Sunday. ... Sabres D Marco Scandella will miss the final week with a lower-body injury. ... Buffalo has gone 20 consecutive periods without holding a lead, dating to Sam Reinhart scoring the opening goal in a 7-4 loss at Montreal on March 23.
UP NEXT
Predators: Host Vancouver Canucks on Thursday.
Sabres: Close home schedule against Ottawa Senators on Thursday.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
RALEIGH, N.C. — The Carolina Hurricanes waited 10 long years to finally bring the playoffs back to town. They almost seemed determined to cram a decade's worth of goals and hits into one game.
Rookie forward Warren Foegele had two goals and an assist, Dougie Hamilton also scored twice and the Hurricanes routed the Washington Capitals 5-0 on Monday night in their first home playoff game since 2009.
"We were relentless. We just kept going at them," Hamilton said. "The crowd was unbelievable. It was one of the loudest buildings I've ever played in, and just so fun."
Petr Mrazek earned his fourth career postseason shutout. Brock McGinn had a late goal and an assist, and Jaccob Slavin and Jordan Staal each had two assists.
The rapid-fire Hurricanes outshot Washington 45-18 to cut the defending Stanley Cup champions' lead to 2-1 in the best-of-seven series.
Playing with just 10 forwards after losing two to injuries in the first period, Carolina effectively rolled with three lines the rest of the way and fed off an amped-up crowd releasing 10 years of pent-up frustration with every hit.
The result: Carolina's most lopsided postseason victory since a 5-0 win over Edmonton in Game 2 of the 2006 Stanley Cup final.
"Absolutely electric," captain Justin Williams said.
Mrazek finished with 18 saves in his fifth career playoff victory — the last four have been shutouts.
Braden Holtby stopped 40 shots for Washington, which had its six-game postseason winning streak snapped. The Capitals were shut out in the playoffs for the first time since 2017.
"We just stopped playing," captain Alex Ovechkin said. "We can't play like that if we want to win. We're better than that."
Washington won all four regular-season meetings with its longtime division rival — first in the old Southeast, now in the Metropolitan — before winning the first two games of this series on home ice.
The first postseason game in Raleigh since 2009 — when Carolina was swept by Pittsburgh in the Eastern Conference final — was a physical, borderline violent affair, headlined by Ovechkin's first career playoff fight, one that sent Hurricanes rookie Andrei Svechnikov's head crashing onto the ice and knocked him out of the game.
Carolina coach Rod Brind'Amour said he didn't have an update on his 19-year-old forward.
"I thought we were engaged from the start, and we were physical," Foegele said. "We all battled together. All 20 guys battled hard. ... (Svechnikov is) our brother, and we stand up for each other. We knew we needed to get this win, not just for us, but for him."
Svechnikov was one of two Carolina forwards to sustain upper-body injuries in the first 10 minutes — physical winger Micheal Ferland was hurt about 2 minutes earlier — and that left the Hurricanes' bench short for the final 2½ periods.
There was nothing at all wrong with Foegele, who had his team's first two-goal postseason game since Eric Staal in Game 4 against Boston in the second round in 2009.
Foegele's first goal was a bit of a fluke — he was locked up in front of the net and was clipped by Justin Faulk's shot from the point that got past Holtby — but there wasn't anything cheap about his second one. He parked to the right of Holtby, took a feed from Sebastian Aho past a sliding Matt Niskanen and snapped the puck past the goalie to make it 2-0 with 13:51 left in the second.
"I think I play aggressive and I play hard," Foegele said. "I love these moments. I think all of us love these moments. This is when it counts. This is when it matters. You just put in your full effort and hope for the best result."
Foegele had a breakaway late in the second with a chance at the first postseason hat trick in club history, but Holtby stopped him — and then the rookie earned a slashing penalty for whacking the goalie's chest and pads while reaching for the rebound.
By then, Hamilton had started his scoring binge, ripping a pair of power-play shots past Holtby, with his two insurance goals equaling his previous career playoff total.
NOTES: Foegele's only other two-goal game in the NHL came in the third game of the regular season, an 8-5 win over the New York Rangers on Oct. 7. ... The Capitals had just one shot on goal in the second period. ... This was Carolina's first postseason victory since May 14, 2009, when Scott Walker scored in overtime of Game 7 against Boston.
UP NEXT
Carolina will look to even the series at two games apiece in Game 4 on Thursday night in Raleigh.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
SAN JOSE, Calif. — The Shark Tank was rocking after San Jose erased a three-goal deficit in the closing minutes of the first period and appeared to score again in the opening minute of the second.
Then, the referee waved it off for goalie interference and gave Vegas a power play that changed the momentum of the game and possibly the series.
Mark Stone scored the tiebreaking goal on that power play and the Golden Knights responded after the first-period collapse to beat the Sharks 5-3 on Friday night to tie their playoff series at one game apiece.
"For our power play to come out and really bear down was obviously a big swing," Stone said. "There's momentum swings in playoff games every night. Every game is a new chapter in a series and tonight was a big win for us."
The teams packed an entire game into the opening minutes with the Golden Knights scoring three goals in the first 6:11 and the Sharks rallying for three more in the final 3:01 to become the first team in NHL history to tie a playoff game in the first period after falling behind 3-0.
The craziness continued at the start of the second period when the Sharks briefly celebrated an apparent goal in the opening minute by Brent Burns. That quickly turned to frustration when the officials waved off the goal because Logan Couture interfered with Marc-Andre Fleury, giving the Golden Knights the power play that led to the game-winning goal.
"It was awesome," Vegas coach Gerard Gallant said. "It was definitely the right call. He hit him in the head. He tried to play the puck, he was defending his goal, he's trying to play the puck and a guy skates through the blue paint and bumps him in the head. To me, it's pretty obvious. I don't know what they're saying down there."
Predictably, that wasn't the view from the Sharks side, with coach Peter DeBoer calling it a "travesty." DeBoer said he believed Fleury was outside the crease when contact was made and was upset the referee called a penalty on what he thought was incidental contact because that prevented a chance at a replay review.
"That one call is a two-goal swing and devastating for our group," DeBoer said. "It's a shame."
Stone converted from the slot after a scramble for his third goal of the series and Vegas held on from there, thanks in part to 34 saves from Fleury.
Cody Eakin, Colin Miller and Max Pacioretty all scored in the first period to stake the Golden Knights to the big lead after losing the opener 5-2. William Karlsson added a short-handed goal in the third to ice it.
Game 3 will be Sunday night in Las Vegas.
Couture, Tomas Hertl and Joe Thornton scored for the Sharks, who were doomed by the lackluster start and a poor power play. Martin Jones was pulled for Aaron Dell after allowing three goals on seven shots.
Perhaps even more concerning for San Jose was the fact that defenseman Marc-Edouard Vlasic left after blocking a shot in the second period and didn't return. Couture also missed significant time in the second period after being hit in the groin area by a shot but returned for the third.
The Sharks had chances to tie it with an early power play, but allowed a goal on a breakaway from Karlsson instead to fall behind 5-3. They finished 1 for 8 with the man advantage, along with allowing two short-handed goals.
"We just got outworked, plain and simple," forward Evander Kane said. "We can't give up two short-handed goals and expect to win in the postseason. We just got outworked."
Gallant had been unhappy with the compete level of his team in the opener, but that wasn't a problem early as Eakin scored just 58 seconds into the game after being left alone in the slot and the Golden Knights controlling the play early.
They even killed off one minute of a two-man advantage and scored a short-handed goal just after Colin Miller came back on the ice as he stole a back pass from Erik Karlsson and beat Jones on the rush to make it 2-0.
Pacioretty added his goal less than two minutes later after a turnover from Vlasic and it appeared as if the rout was on before a reckless penalty by Miller negated a Vegas power play.
The Sharks got on the board during 4-on-4 play with tic-tac-toe passing from Karlsson to Pavelski to Couture, who put the puck into an open net.
Karlsson's shot from the point on the man advantage deflected off Hertl to make it a one-goal game and Thornton tied it with 52 seconds left in the period when he redirected a pass from Brenden Dillon after Evander Kane's hustle created the scoring chance.
NOTES: Miller played in place of Nick Holden after sitting in the opener. He scored the short-handed goal, but also took two penalties. ... Jones has been pulled in five of 14 career starts against Vegas.
UP NEXT
Game 3 is Sunday night in Las Vegas.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
UNIONDALE, N.Y. — Josh Bailey didn't have much time to think when he saw the puck on the side of the crease after Mathew Barzal's try hit the left goalpost in overtime. Bailey just swooped in and knocked it into the net to send the New York Islanders home with a win.
Bailey scored at 4:39 of the extra period and the Islanders beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 4-3 on Wednesday night in the opener of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.
"It just happened so quick," Bailey said. "I wasn't sure. It didn't lay very flat for me. I was just trying to whack it and hope it went in. ... A crucial game. There's still a long way to go, but a good win for us."
Barzal had brought the puck into the offensive zone on a 2-on-1 break, faked in front to draw Matt Murray out and sent the backhand shot that bounced off the left post. He was initially upset with himself at missing the opportunity before he saw Bailey come up and put it in.
"I see the puck laying there and I was just obviously (angry), I thought the chance had ended," Barzal said. "And I see Bails come in and swoop in and bury it. I was obviously super happy to see that. Awesome for him. First game and that's nice for the confidence."
Jordan Eberle had a goal and an assist, and Brock Nelson and Nick Leddy also scored for New York, which was opening a postseason series at home for the first time in 31 years. Robin Lehner stopped 41 shots.
Game 2 is Friday night back at the Nassau Coliseum.
Phil Kessel and Evgeni Malkin each had a goal and an assist, and Justin Schultz also scored for the Penguins. Murray finished with 29 saves.
"It was a hard-fought game," Pittsburgh coach Mike Sullivan said. "It wasn't perfect out there by any stretch, but I thought we played hard."
Tom Kuhnhackl, who had a goal in the opening minute of the game waved off for offside, nearly won it for the Islanders 1:12 into the extra period as he crashed into Murray and the puck crossed the goal line — but not before the net came loose. The no-goal was confirmed after a review.
The Islanders led three times in regulation with the Penguins managing to tie it each time.
"We just stayed to it," Islanders coach Barry Trotz said. "I liked our composure on the bench. There were a lot of twists and turns to that game. ... (We) didn't flinch at all."
Leddy gave the Islanders a 3-2 lead with 7:25 left in the third as he sent a long shot from left point at the blue line that knuckled past Murray.
With Murray pulled for an extra skater, Schultz fired a one-timer from the left circle inside the left post with 1:29 left.
Bailey had a chance at the winner for the Islanders in the closing seconds, but his shot hit the right post. He was glad it didn't end up being a costly miss.
"I was afraid I was going to have to see that in my nightmares for a while," Bailey said. "Yeah, a little bit of redemption. Just happy to get the win."
Malkin tied it 2-2 on a power play with 6:19 left in the middle period as his shot from the inside edge of the right circle deflected off Islander defenseman Adam Pelech's stick and up past Lehner.
The raucous crowd that was chanting "Let's Go Islanders!" from before the teams came out for pregame warmups, roared when the Islanders stepped on the ice and booed loudly when the Penguins followed. They got loud again in the minutes before the teams emerged from their dressing rooms for the start of the game.
Pittsburgh outshot New York 17-12 in the first period, but the Islanders led 2-1 after 20 minutes.
Just more than a minute after Kuhnhackl's opening-minute goal was overturned, Eberle did give the Islanders the lead as he stopped a deflection of Pelech's shot, turned and beat Murray through the five-hole from the right side for his first career postseason goal at 1:40.
The Penguins tied it when Dominik Simon brought the puck down the middle and dropped a pass back to Kessel, who put it past Lehner off the post and in at 5:42.
Nelson put the Islanders back in front on the power play as he got a pass in front from Eberle and put it past Murray with 4:14 left in the opening period.
NOTES: Malkin, Sidney Crosby and Kris Letang are the only Penguins players remaining from the 2013 playoff series against the Islanders. New York has five players left — Nelson, Josh Bailey, Casey Cizikas, Thomas Hickey and Matt Martin. ... Kessel also scored in each of the last three games during the regular season. ... Malkin's goal was his 63rd in the playoffs, breaking a tie with Bobby Hull for sole possession of 26th place on the NHL's career list.
UP NEXT
Game 2 is Friday night before the series shifts to Pittsburgh for Games 3 and 4.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
LAS VEGAS — Don Logan spent years trying to get a new minor league ballpark in this gambling city, so the president of the Las Vegas Aviators understands what the Oakland A's are going through in their quest for new digs in the Bay Area.
After all, he's had sewage in his dugout, too.
The A's are still contending with antiquated plumbing at the Oakland Coliseum, the team's home for the past 51 years. Their efforts to get a new stadium have floundered over the years, though recently there has been some momentum toward a new home field.
The club's top minor league team? Well, that's another story.
The Triple-A Aviators open at home Tuesday night in what might be the best ballpark in all of minor league baseball, a $150 million palace complete with swimming pool in right center, celebrity chefs overseeing the grills, and player comforts that rival the bigs.
If players have to spend time in Las Vegas on their way to the top, at least they'll be doing it in style.
"I think I can promise you the locker room facilities just by themselves are far superior here than in Oakland," Logan said.
Funded in part by an $80 million naming rights deal with Las Vegas tourism officials, the appropriately named Las Vegas Ballpark is a big investment for minor league baseball. The 10,000-seat ballpark replaces Cashman Field, which opened in 1983 and — in a bit of serendipity — was briefly the home of the A's themselves when they had to play their first six games of the 1996 season in Las Vegas because the Coliseum was being remodeled for the Raiders.
Logan was there for that series, as he has been for almost every game at Cashman since arriving in 1984, the year after what was then the Padres Triple-A team began play in Las Vegas. He was instrumental in trying to land four spring training teams for the city in the 1990s, and is in the conversation whenever talk turns to a possible major league franchise in Sin City.
But while he has seen just about everything in minor league baseball, Logan says he has never seen a ballpark like the one his team opens in this week.
"This is going to be as nice as any ballpark in the country," Logan said. "There isn't anything we haven't thought of."
That includes the pool, a concept first introduced by the Arizona Diamondbacks, which will be especially popular on summer nights when the temperature doesn't drop below 100 degrees until the games are over. Set amid a forest of towering palm trees, it rents for around $2,000 a game, and Logan predicted it will be filled almost every night.
So will the seats — which are made of mesh to help with the desert heat — and the party decks, which are modeled after those at the minor league park in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fans enjoying the game on the left field party deck will get the bonus of a view of the glittering hotels of the Las Vegas Strip in the valley below.
Logan, the 2018 Pacific Coast League executive of the year, said the team and its architects also borrowed from design elements from ballparks in El Paso, Texas, and in Columbus, Ohio, which has been the top-ranked minor league ballpark in many surveys.
"Its reign as the top ballpark in the minors is about to end this season," Logan said. "It is cool, but it's not this cool."
The old ballpark was located in a declining neighborhood near downtown, while the new one is in the suburban master planned community of Summerlin, with the new practice facility for the NHL's Vegas Golden Knights reachable with a big shot over the left field scoreboard.
It's prime real estate and players will also like that they can walk to the clubhouse from the Red Rock hotel-casino across the street, where visiting teams will stay. Fans can also bet on the game at the casino's sports book, which is offering lines on all Aviators games.
Ticket buyers will find it just as inviting. Besides the swimming pool, there are 22 suites, a wall full of craft beer taps, and a club level complete with a show kitchen for cooking displays. Giada de Laurentiis is one of the celebrity chefs, with others to come. The team also has its own beer, a seasonal ale.
"We've spent an inordinate amount of time on food and different types of beers," Logan said. "The food options and food experience here will be better than most anywhere in baseball, if not better."
Looming over it all will be a $4 million video board that is the largest in the minor leagues. This is Las Vegas, after all, so there has to be some glitz especially considering the city also has a new arena for the Golden Knights and is building a $1.9 billion stadium for the Raiders that will open next year.
That's a lot of competition for the sports dollar, but the Aviators figure to find their niche on the minor league level.
Big league good, even without a big league team.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
PITTSBURGH — The New York Islanders don't play a particularly sexy brandy of hockey. They forecheck. They backcheck. They block shots and take few risks, more focused on fundamentals than flash.
It's a style designed to frustrate opponents regardless of pedigree, one that has them on the cusp of just their second playoff series win in more than a quarter-century.
Jordan Eberle and Brock Nelson scored 62 seconds apart in the first period to quickly erase a rare deficit, Robin Lehner stopped 25 shots and the Islanders moved within one victory of finishing off Sidney Crosby and the rest of the frustrated Pittsburgh Penguins with a 4-1 win on Sunday to take a 3-0 lead in their best-of-seven Eastern Conference quarterfinal.
It's heady territory for a franchise that's advanced past the first round just once since 1993. Yet the Islanders certainly look like they belong on the big stage. They've outscored Pittsburgh 11-5 through three games and have trailed for less than four minutes through nine-plus periods against a team that began the playoffs looking to capture its third Stanley Cup in four years, a dream that's all but vanished.
"We kind of did our best to play simple hockey and really just grind it out a little bit," said New York forward Anders Lee, whose empty-net goal with 1:28 to go pushed the Islanders to the cusp of an unlikely sweep.
It's what the Islanders do.
While they lack Pittsburgh's offensive firepower, they've made up for it with depth and resiliency. Rather than get rattled after Garrett Wilson gave the Penguins just their second lead of the series when he redirected a point shot by Lehner just past the midway point of the first period, the Islanders responded immediately.
Eberle beat Matt Murray short side from just above the goal line 28 seconds after Wilson's score to tie the game and Nelson finished off a 2-on-1 to put New York in front to stay just over a minute later. Lehner withstood a series of pushes by the Penguins, and the Islanders counterpunched brilliantly in the third period behind goals from Leo Komarov and Lee to pull away.
"Playoffs are all about momentum," said Eberle, who has three goals in three games. "When you can take some team's momentum away and just continue to build yours, it's key."
Matt Murray finished with 32 saves for the Penguins, but Pittsburgh again struggled to generate any sort of sustained offensive pressure.
New York, which allowed an NHL-low 196 goals on its way to a second-place finish in the Metropolitan Division, has clamped down on Crosby and linemate Jake Guentzel. The two — who combined for 75 goals and 101 assists during the regular season — have yet to record a point in the playoffs.
Pittsburgh needs a win in Game 4 on Tuesday to avoid being swept for the first time since the 2013 Eastern Conference finals against Boston.
"You've got to find ways to score goals this time of year," Crosby said. "It's not easy but you've got to find a way to do it and obviously we haven't done a good job of it through the first three games."
The Islanders controlled Games 1 and 2 back home on Long Island to take the franchise's first 2-0 postseason lead since the 1983 Stanley Cup finals, when they completed their run of four straight championships by sweeping Wayne Gretzky and the Edmonton Oilers.
The Penguins insisted it wasn't time to panic, with coach Mike Sullivan downplaying the idea his team needed to play with desperation. Still, he opted to tinker with his lines in search of a spark, elevating Dominik Simon to the top line alongside Crosby and Guentzel and putting Jared McCann — who sat out Game 2 with a lower-body injury — on the second line with Evgeni Malkin and Phil Kessel.
It didn't quite work. Simon had a chance to even the score late in the first period, but Guenztel's crossing pass at the end of a 3-on-1 headed to Simon's stick instead of his skate, emblematic of a series in which few bounces have gone Pittsburgh's way. Not that the Penguins were looking for sympathy.
"If we work hard and do the right things, we'll earn our bounces," Crosby said.
The Islanders have certainly earned theirs.
Now they find themselves in a spot that seemed improbable at best a week ago: heading to Game 4 with a chance to make Pittsburgh's playoff stay the shortest of the Crosby/Malkin era. They're also aware the next victory will be the hardest to come by.
"This group is not afraid of work," said first-year Islanders coach Barry Trotz, who led Washington past Pittsburgh last spring on the way to the Stanley Cup. "They're not afraid of competition. They're not afraid of a whole lot."
NOTES: Four teams have rallied from 3-0 deficits to win a best-of-seven series, including a victory by the Islanders over the Penguins in 1975. ... Pittsburgh went 0 for 3 on the power play to drop to 1 for 8 with the man advantage in the series. The Islanders went 0 for 2 on the power play, squandering a 30-second two-man advantage in the second period. ... Penguins F Jared McCann skated 14:23 after missing Game 2 with a lower-body injury.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
BUFFALO, N.Y. — Scott Sandelin acknowledged having his doubts through several low points of the season as to whether his Minnesota Duluth players were motivated enough to repeat as college hockey champions.
On Saturday, the Bulldogs coach could finally breathe easy after getting his answer.
Leaning on the leadership of senior and captain Parker Mackay and the stingy goaltending of junior Hunter Shepard, Minnesota Duluth became the ninth school to successfully defend its title following a 3-0 win over upstart Massachusetts.
"You never know how they're going to come back. Are they really super motivated to get back there?" Sandelin said.
"I think that was probably the biggest challenge, trying to read them. And I think deep down they were," he added. "They had a funny way of showing it because they're really quiet, which quite frankly (ticked) me off sometimes, I'm not going to lie. But it was fun."
Mackay was named the Frozen Four MVP after he opened the scoring and added an assist. Shepard stopped 18 shots for his seventh shutout of the season and nation-leading 29th victory, while improving his NCAA Tournament record to 8-0.
The Bulldogs (29-11-2) became the first school to win consecutive titles since Denver in 2004 and '05. It's the third championship for Minnesota Duluth, which beat Notre Dame in the Frozen Four final a year ago and also won in 2011.
Leave it to Mackay to lead the way in closing his career with a five-game point streak in which he combined for four goals and three assists. And that included opening the NCAA Tournament by scoring the tying goal with 3:01 left and then scoring the winner in a 2-1 overtime victory over Bowling Green.
"It's incredible. Obviously, you can't write it any better than that," said Mackay, who appeared in 14 tournament games in which the Bulldogs reached three consecutive finals starting with losing to Denver in 2017.
Mackay credited Shepard.
"Shepy's been our brick wall all season long. He was our most consistent player," Mackay said. "I don't think we are even close to where we are without him."
Mikey Anderson had a goal and two assists and Noah Cates sealed the win by scoring with 2:42 remaining.
The Bulldogs' experience on the big stage proved to be an edge over a young UMass opponent. The Minutemen (31-10) were making their first appearance in the championship game and in just the second tournament berth in school history.
UMass eclipsed its previous single-season-best win total of 21 in 2007, while also being two years removed from a five-win finish in coach Greg Carvel's first season.
The game could potentially be the final one at UMass for Bulldogs sophomore defenseman Cale Makar. The Hobey Baker award-winning player has been weighing a decision on whether to turn pro and join the Colorado Avalanche, who are in the midst of a first-round NHL playoff series with Calgary.
The Avalanche selected Makar with the fourth pick in the 2017 draft.
Makar said he wanted to first have a discussion with his family and added: "Everything's up in the air right now."
Makar made a point to wear his No. 16 UMass jersey to the podium.
"I just want to keep it on as long as I can," he said. "It's a jersey I'm very proud to wear. Our team has brought so much respect to this program. It's going to be a couple of years that I'll never forget in my entire life."
Coach Carvel initially joked that he hoped Makar would return for a third season before acknowledging the defenseman has likely played his last game at UMass.
"He's unbelievable. I feel very fortunate that I got to coach him," Carvel said. "I don't expect him back. Just very grateful, very grateful."
Freshman Filip Lindberg stopped 28 shots, and had little chance on either of the Bulldogs' first two goals.
The Bulldogs dominated from the start and were outshooting the Minutemen 6-0 when Mackay opened the scoring 3:51 in with a power-play goal.
Riley Tufte began the play by controlling a bouncing puck at the right boards and feeding Anderson at the left point. Anderson immediately sent a pass into the slot, where a wide-open Mackay cut across and backhanded in a shot inside the left post.
The Minutemen didn't manage their first shot on net until the 4:16 mark and were outshot 14-5 in the period.
Mackay then played a big role in setting up Anderson's goal. Controlling the puck along the right boards, Mackay spun around in the corner and hit Anderson in stride while making his way to the high slot. Anderson took a few steps and snapped a shot inside the right post.
"It seemed like tonight they were a more mature team," Carvel said. "This is a big stage. We looked like a young team. We looked like a team that was playing a team that's been here before, done this."
NOTES: UMass played minus forward Bobby Trivigno, who served a one-game NCAA suspension for an illegal hit to the head against Denver on Thursday. ... With UMass advancing to the final, Hockey East has had an NCAA-leading 29 teams play for the title over the past 21 years. ... Sandelin improved his tournament record to 21-6, and the Bulldogs' 29 wins were the most since going 36-9-3 in 1984-85.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Craig Smith has a knack for timely goals in the playoffs, and he helped the Nashville Predators avoid a very big hole heading to Dallas.
Smith scored five minutes into overtime to give the Predators a 2-1 victory over the Dallas Stars on Saturday, tying the first-round Western Conference series at 1-1.
The puck popped out around his feet, and he scored his first this postseason from the inside edge of the left circle. That goal snapped a three-game playoff skid on home ice for Nashville.
"We need people to step up when you're in a situation like that and you're down by a game in a series and you get into overtime," Nashville coach Peter Laviolette said. "You can just weight the two results, and we needed to get a win and we needed somebody. And it was really good for Craig."
That was the first postseason overtime goal of Smith's career, and the third winner of his career in the playoffs. That ties him for the most in Predators' history, and Smith said it probably was one of his biggest goals.
"It was kind of a delayed reaction," Smith said. "I think (Stars defenseman Roman) Polak knocked it down and I just tried to get a stick on it and tried to feather it in there. I don't know how it got through but able to just get a stick on something and get some traffic and get it in there."
Rocco Grimaldi also scored for Nashville, and Pekka Rinne made 22 saves. The Predators had lost five of their last six postseason games in the place they call Smashville.
Jamie Benn scored for Dallas The Stars were outshot 43-23.
"We knew we were going to get Nashville's best and we did," Dallas coach Jim Montgomery said. "And you know they were the better team tonight, and probably not for Bish (goalie Ben Bishop) we're not in overtime. So we got to come back and we will. We'll be better."
Game 3 is Monday night in Dallas.
The teams went to overtime twice during their five-game series during the regular season, and Dallas won the opener 3-2. So it was no surprise they went past regulation yet again.
The Stars went 0 of 6 on the man advantage after being the NHL's 11th-best on the power play during the regular season.
After losing Game 1, the Predators came into this game having lost five of their last six playoff games on home ice. The Stars came in trying to join both St. Louis and Columbus as road teams taking a 2-0 advantage back home.
The teams fought to the first scoreless period of this young series to open this game, though the Predators killed a four-minute penalty on a double minor to Mattias Ekholm and outshot Dallas 15-9.
Dallas took the lead at 1:59 of the second when Tyler Seguin got the puck off a turnover, passed to Benn at the side of the net for the captain's first goal this postseason.
Stars center Mattias Janmark went straight to the locker room after a collision with Predators' defenseman Dan Hamhuis into the boards. Janmark was down for a couple minutes before being helped off the ice at 3:10, putting no weight on his left leg. Janmark managed to return later in the game.
Nashville tied it at 3:56, with Grimaldi scoring over Bishop's glove from right in front off a pass from Austin Watson. It was the first postseason goal in Grimaldi's third career playoff game and first with Nashville, and he got the call Saturday morning that he was in the lineup with forward Brian Boyle out sick.
"It's a huge goal for him personally too," Nashville goalie Pekka Rinne said. "First playoff goal, obviously a big moment, tied the game. I think it's a huge booster anytime he cracks in the lineup. He's always one of the bright lights out there. Again, he did a really good job."
The Predators also lost forward Wayne Simmonds in the first period after he took a one-timer from teammate Roman Josi off the inside of his left knee. He later tested his leg taking a lap during a TV timeout before going back to the locker room.
In the third, Rinne smothered a shot from Seguin off a pass from Alexander Radulov in the opening minutes. Stars center Jason Dickinson hit the top right corner of the post 5:24 in.
"We had a chance, we played pretty good tonight," Bishop said. "So obviously it goes to overtime, it's anybody's game and unfortunately they got it and just get ready for Game 3 now."
NOTES: The Predators improved to 5-2 at home in Game 2 all-time with their first home playoff win since Game 2 of their second-round series last spring against Winnipeg. Nashville improved to 8-8 in postseason overtimes. ... Smith tied James Neal, Viktor Arvidsson and David Legwand for most game-winning goals in the playoffs. ... Grimaldi played his first postseason game since April 2016 with Florida. ... Benn now has at least a point in 10 of his 11 career postseason games on the road with four goals and nine assists.
UP NEXT
Game 3 on Monday night in Dallas.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
UNIONDALE, N.Y. — After falling behind in the second period, the New York Islanders didn't get discouraged. They maintained their focus, tied it minutes later and then pulled away in the third period.
Jordan Eberle and Josh Bailey scored less than four minutes apart in the final period and the Islanders beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 3-1 Friday night for a 2-0 lead in their first-round playoff series.
"You can't get too emotional, get too down and get frustrated," New York captain Anders Lee said. "We were playing a good game at the time (Pittsburgh scored), but there was plenty of time left."
Anthony Beauvillier had the tying goal midway through the second and Robin Lehner stopped 32 shots to help New York open a postseason series with two wins for the first time since sweeping Edmonton in the 1983 Stanley Cup Final for the Islanders' fourth straight championship.
Mathew Barzal had two assists in a chippy, physical game that featured a lot of hard hits and some skirmishes, especially in the first two periods — and also after the final buzzer.
"We stayed with it all night," New York coach Barry Trotz said. "Both teams were knocking heads for a while there. ... We got opportunities and we capitalized on them, and we got a big save when we needed it."
Erik Gudbranson scored and Matt Murray finished with 31 saves for the Penguins, who have lost the first two games of a postseason series for the first time since the 2013 Eastern Conference finals against Boston.
Game 3 is Sunday at Pittsburgh.
"We've got to go back to our building and worry about one game," Murray said. "That's it."
The Islanders took the lead after a turnover by the Penguins near their own blue line. Barzal sent the puck up to Eberle on the right side and he skated across the front and sent a backhand in at 7:54 of the third to put New York up 2-1.
Bailey, who had the overtime winner in Game 1 on Wednesday night, then gave the Islanders a two-goal lead with a power-play score with 8:22 remaining on New York's sixth man-advantage of the night. Devon Toews fired a shot that hit Lee, and the puck came to Bailey, who put it in from the right side.
The Islanders struggled on the power play all season, going 3 for 50 over the final 22 games to finish 29th in the NHL at 14.5 percent. They had one goal on their first seven chances of this series before Bailey's score.
"We kind of talked earlier in the week, just our power play not killing momentum," Lee said. "We might not score every time, but to have a good showing, get some shots, create some buzz around us and start feeling the puck. We had a good showing with that. Guys just stuck with it."
The Penguins pulled Murray for an extra skater with 2:44 remaining, but couldn't take advantage. Lehner made a nice glove save on Phil Kessel from the right circle, drawing chants of "Leh-ner! Leh-ner!" from the raucous home crowd.
"He was stellar, he made some huge saves," Eberle said. "A couple that seemed they had an 'A' chance at. He's been huge all year."
The Islanders had a 5-on-3 advantage for about a minute in the second period, but couldn't beat Murray. The Penguins goalie then had a diving stop on Matt Martin in front about 7:44 in, and a stick save on a slap shot by Ryan Pulock 10 seconds later.
Brian Dumoulin hit a goalpost for Pittsburgh at about the 9-minute mark.
Gudbranson then gave the Penguins their first lead of the series when he took a pass from Evgeni Malkin and fired a one-timer that beat Lehner's blocker side and went in off the post with 9:24 remaining in the second. It was Gudbranson's first career playoff point.
It lasted less than three minutes.
Beauvillier tied it with 6:35 left in the period with his first career playoff goal as he knocked in the loose puck in front after Murray was out of position following a save on Barzal's initial try on a 3-on-2 break
While some of the Islanders began celebrating the goal, fights broke out to Murray's left. Barzal was given a double-minor for roughing, while Pittsburgh's Marcus Pettersson received a 2-minute penalty.
The Islanders outshot the Penguins 11-7 in the scoreless first period.
NOTES: Murray has lost consecutive playoff games for the fourth time. He also did it in Games 3 and 4 of 2017 Stanley Cup Final against Nashville, and Games 2-3 and 5-6 against Washington in second round last year. ... Penguins F Jared McCann sat out due to an upper-body injury. He was replaced in the lineup by F Teddy Blueger, making his playoff debut. D Jack Johnson was back in the lineup after sitting out Game 1. He had played in all 82 games during the regular season. D Olli Maatta sat out to make room. ... New York was 38-2-2 in regular season when scoring at least 3 goals, and is now 2-0 in playoffs.
UP NEXT
The series shifts Pittsburgh for Game 3 on Sunday and Game 4 on Tuesday night.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
The Tampa Bay Lightning faced little adversity in the regular season on the way to a record-tying 62 wins and the most points in a season in 23 years.
That all changed as fast as the Lightning squandered a three-goal lead before losing 4-3 to the Columbus Blue Jackets in Game 1 of their first-round series Wednesday night. Now a team that lost consecutive games just twice all season must rebound in Game 2 at home on Friday night (7 p.m. EDT, CNBC) or be in danger of a quick playoff exit following their spectacular run.
Coach Jon Cooper acknowledges that blowing the big lead has put "pressure" on his team heading into Game 2.
"I actually thought our biggest foe last night was us," Cooper said Thursday. "Columbus had no quit in them and good on them. Our biggest obstacle was us. We'll just see how our response is tomorrow. If we're going to go on past history, we've usually responded pretty well."
The Blue Jackets were the sixth NHL team to come back from being down at least three goals to beat a No. 1 seed in a postseason game.
A comeback seemed farfetched when they fell behind 3-0 in the first period. But Columbus rallied when Nick Foligno scored on a breakaway in the second period following an errant pass by Ryan McDonagh. The Blue Jackets then scored three times in the third, tying it on a short-handed goal by Josh Anderson and getting the go-ahead goal on the power play from Seth Jones with 5:55 remaining.
Building on that won't be easy against a star-studded team featuring scoring champion Nikita Kucherov, Steven Stamkos and goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy.
"Who knows what happens in the series," Columbus coach John Tortorella said. "I'm not worried about our team, how they handle things. Do we succeed? I don't know. I don't have a crystal ball. But I'm very comfortable that they can handle a lot different things. Momentum swings in the series and stuff that happens."
Penguins at Islanders, New York leads 1-0 (7:30 p.m. EDT, NBCSN)
Making their 13th straight appearance in the playoffs, with three championships and two other deep runs, the Pittsburgh Penguins know they can't get discouraged with a tough series-opening loss.
Pittsburgh trailed three times in regulation and tied the score each time before falling 4-3 in overtime against the New York Islanders in Game 1 of their first-round series.
"The guys have been here before," the Penguins' Justin Schultz said. "We know it's a long series. You can't hang your head on each play. You got to move on and worry about the next shift."
Star center Sidney Crosby, who was held off the score sheet in the opener, wasn't surprised by the close game.
"These games are going to be close, they're going to be tight the entire series," he said.
The Penguins also knew how tough the Islanders play after splitting four meetings in the regular season. New York's stingy defense earned the Jennings Trophy by allowing the fewest goals in the league this season.
Blues at Jets, St. Louis leads 1-0 (9:30 p.m. EDT, CNBC)
Holding on to leads was a problem all season for Winnipeg so maybe it shouldn't have been a surprise it happened again in the playoff opener for the Jets.
Winnipeg led 1-0 after two periods in Game 1 against the Blues before losing 2-1. The Jets were tied with Florida for the most losses in the regular season when leading after two periods with nine.
"We've had a couple of those where they score the winning goal in the last two minutes," forward Patrik Laine said. "So it's always tough, but that's how it goes sometimes."
Golden Knights at Sharks, San Jose leads 1-0 (10:30 p.m. NBCSN)
San Jose's big offseason move paid off in the opener of the playoff rematch against Vegas.
Star defenseman Erik Karlsson showed why both the Sharks and Golden Knights coveted him so much when Ottawa put him on the trading block, recording two assists and playing more than 26 minutes in San Jose's 5-2 victory on Wednesday night.
It was just Karlsson's second game back after missing 17 games with a groin injury.
"I think he'll get better and better which is good for us," coach Peter DeBoer said. "He's got another level he can get to. He makes a huge difference for us, in our defensive and offensive game."
Vegas struggled to generate much of anything, putting just 10 shots on goal in the first two periods before applying more pressure in the third when it was too late to help.
Getting off to a faster start in Game 2 will be key for the Golden Knights, who had scored in the opening five minutes in eight of 14 previous meetings against San Jose.
"We didn't have our support guys coming through the middle," defenseman Shea Theodore said. "I thought we were turning over more pucks than we should of instead getting deep and keeping it simple. ... We shot ourselves in the foot."
___
AP Sports Writer Vin A. Cherwoo in Uniondale, New York, and AP freelancer Mark Didtler in Tampa, Florida, contributed to this report
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
TORONTO — With the Toronto Maple Leafs back home, Auston Matthews finally broke through against Boston.
Matthews scored his first goal of the playoffs and set up another as the Maple Leafs beat the Bruins 3-2 on Monday night to take a 2-1 lead in their best-of-seven Eastern Conference quarterfinal.
"It's nice to get one," said Matthews, who had just two points against Boston in the 2018 postseason. "It's just another level when you score a goal in the playoffs, especially at home.
"I've said this before, it feels like an earthquake under you. The atmosphere tonight was unbelievable and we just want to continue what we built off tonight here on Wednesday."
Andreas Johnsson, also with a goal and an assist, and Trevor Moore provided the rest of the offense for Toronto. Frederik Andersen made 34 saves.
David Krejci and Charlie Coyle scored for Boston. Tuukka Rask stopped 31 shots in front of a crowd of 19,611.
"They played hard," Bruins winger Brad Marchand said. "They upped their compete level. Ours wasn't as good as it needed to be. But we're right there — we had some opportunities to tie it up late.
"The difference was special teams. We'll clean it up and get ready for the next one."
The Maple Leafs won the series opener 4-1 last Wednesday in Boston before losing by the same score Saturday. Game 4 is Wednesday night in Toronto.
Less than an hour before puck drop, the Maple Leafs learned center Nazem Kadri was suspended for the rest of the series for his vicious cross-check to the head of Bruins winger Jake DeBrusk in the third period of Game 2.
"I actually just was told," DeBrusk said after the game. "The league handled it. It's one of those things where I don't think it's any use to comment on, to be honest with you."
All five goals came in the second period.
Toronto took a 1-0 lead at 2:38 when Moore poked a loose puck home for his first career playoff goal after Morgan Rielly's initial shot rattled around between Rask's pads.
Boston replied 52 seconds later when Krejci chipped a bouncing puck past Andersen.
Matthews put Toronto back in front just 12 seconds after David Backes was whistled for high-sticking, taking a feed from Johnsson and burying his first beyond an outstretched Rask to send the crowd into a frenzy at 10:12.
Mitch Marner, who scored twice in Game 1 but was held in check along with most of his teammates Saturday, made the initial play to Johnsson off the offensive zone draw.
Criticized for his play in Boston's seven-game victory over Toronto in the first round last spring, the 21-year-old Matthews was immediately serenaded by chants of "Aus-ton! Matth-ews!" by the crowd.
Promoted to the first power-play unit because of Kadri's suspension, Johnsson made it 3-1 with his first career playoff goal with 2:48 left in the period when he roofed a backhand over Rask after a nice feed from John Tavares as Toronto connected for a second time on the man advantage after going 0 for 4 in the first two games.
"It was unfortunate giving up a couple on the PK," Marchand said. "We got caught out of position a couple times there."
Matthews picked up the second assist to match his point total from last year's series against the Bruins.
Boston responded on a power play of its own with 37.3 seconds left in the period when Coyle collected a puck off the end boards to score his second of the series.
The Bruins got a power play five minutes into the third when Maple Leafs defenseman Nikita Zaitsev fired the puck over the glass for a delay-of-game penalty, but Toronto's penalty kill held firm against a man advantage that has connected in every game this series.
After Matthews and Johnsson had chances to make it 4-2 that Rask kept out, Andersen made a diving stop with the knob of his stick on Krejci to keep his team ahead.
"They're a really good team and we're a really good team," Marchand said. "We're a couple points apart in the standings. It's going to be tight games out there. That's what we expect. We just have to take advantage of our opportunities when we get them."
Boston kept up the pressure with Rask on the bench for an extra attacker, but Toronto held on despite some tense moments late — including two key blocks from Marner.
"That's what you've got to do to win," Toronto coach Mike Babcock said. "Ideally, all those things are contagious. When you see your teammate do something like that, you're more likely to do it yourself."
Kadri traveled to New York for an in-person hearing, meaning the NHL had the option to suspend him for more than five games. The 28-year-old, who has been suspended five times since 2013, will miss anywhere from three to five games, but the ban won't stretch into the second round of these playoffs or next season.
William Nylander slid over from the wing to take Kadri's place on Toronto's third line behind between Patrick Marleau and Connor Brown.
DeBrusk suited up after leaving Game 2 following the hit by Kadri, while Bruins defenseman Torey Krug was also good to go despite leaving Saturday after taking a huge hit from Maple Leafs defenseman Jake Muzzin.
NOTES: Game 5 is set for Friday in Boston. Game 6, if necessary, would be back in Toronto on Sunday. ... Bruins defenseman Connor Clifton sat out with an undisclosed injury, while winger Marcus Johansson missed a second consecutive game with an illness.
UP NEXT
The Bruins will try to even the series again Wednesday night in Game 4.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
It wasn't long after celebrating Craig Smith's overtime goal that P.K. Subban zeroed in on the cold reality of Nashville's playoff series against Dallas.
"There are no easy shifts out there, no easy games and no easy plays," he said. "It's hand-to-hand combat out there."
Subban and the Central Division-winning Predators needed to work overtime just to even things with the Stars at a game apiece, and the Colorado Avalanche got a sudden-death goal from Nathan MacKinnon to tie up their series against the Western Conference top-seeded Calgary Flames. In the East, the defending Stanley Cup champion Washington Capitals needed extra time to take a two games to none lead on the Carolina Hurricanes, and the Boston Bruins are going blow-for-blow with the Toronto Maple Leafs in series that's all square and looking like it could be a classic.
"It's nerve-racking, but it's definitely fun," Avalanche coach Jared Bednar said.
None of these first-round series are going to be easy — even for the Capitals, who will go into a madhouse Monday (7 p.m. EDT, CNBC) for the first Hurricanes home playoff game in a decade.
"Absolutely no quit in that team," Washington coach Todd Reirden said Sunday about Carolina. "They're not going away."
This isn't a time of year for shrinking from challenges, and the Bruins showed in their Game 2 against the Maple Leafs that they're not going anywhere. As the series shifts to Toronto, the Maple Leafs will be without center Nazem Kadri for at least Game 3 (7 p.m. EDT, NBCSN), who has an in-person hearing with the NHL's department of player safety earlier in the day for cross-checking Jake DeBrusk in the face.
Kadri was suspended three playoff games for boarding Boston's Tommy Wingels when these teams met in the first round a year ago and could be banned for the rest of this series, if not longer. It's no surprise the tensions are high between the Bruins and Maple Leafs.
"Things were getting pretty amped up there towards the end of the game and a lot of emotions, and that's what playoff hockey is all about," Bruins agitator extraordinaire Brad Marchand said after Game 2. "It's going to happen on both sides. There's going to be a lot of physicality the rest of the series."
The Capitals will try to keep up the physicality against the small and quick Hurricanes, who have shown they can come back on Washington. Center Jordan Staal said, "We're right there," and there's no shortage of belief that they can make it a series.
"I don't think we played our best game," center Sebastian Aho said. "It's just trying to believe that when we play our best, we have a better chance to win."
Stars-Predators is anyone's series going into Game 3 Monday night in Dallas (9:30 p.m. EDT, NBCSN). Each of the first two games was decided by a goal, and players expect the low-scoring trend to continue as the series wears on.
"It's not obviously open like the regular season," Stars goaltender Ben Bishop said. "Everybody finishes checks, everybody's going 110 percent. It's not going to be that up-and-down style that you're used to."
Bishop clearly isn't watching Avalanche-Flames, which finally opened up in Game 2 after a shutout by Calgary's Mike Smith in the series opener. Led by MacKinnon, captain Gabriel Landeskog and now-healthy Mikko Rantanen, Colorado looks like it can push the Flames with the series shifting to Denver for Game 3 (10 p.m. EDT, CNBC).
"We've always had the confidence in this room," forward Matt Nieto said. "Down late or running into a hot goalie, we know we can win games against this team. We're thrilled to be going back 1-1 and get back in front of that Pepsi Center crowd and try to get a lead in the series."
The Capitals know from their own experience in the first round last year that a 2-0 series lead doesn't mean a whole lot. They came back from down 2-0 to beat Columbus on the way to winning the Cup and were pushed to seven games by Tampa Bay after leading the Eastern Conference final by that same margin.
They know better by now than to underestimate the Hurricanes.
"There's a lot of desperation whether you're down two or you're starting the series, but there might be a little extra," Washington winger T.J. Oshie said. "feels good to be up 2-nothing, but I think we can still do a lot better job and we're going to have to if we want to go get a win there."
LATE ADDITIONS
The Avalanche could have top prospect Cale Makar in their lineup sooner than later after signing the 20-year-old defenseman to a three-year, entry-level contract Sunday. Makar, who won the Hobey Baker Award as the NCAA player of the year, is fresh off a loss with UMass in the Frozen Four title game Saturday and could be a big boost for Colorado.
"It's my job to make sure I'm putting him in a position to succeed," Bednar said. "I think he's an elite talent and a real special player. So I have hopes he can come in and help us in this series."
Colorado isn't the only team adding a player with the playoffs underway. The Blue Jackets signed defenseman Vladislav Gavrikov to a two-year deal and the Vegas Golden Knights signed forward Nikita Gusev for the rest of the postseason after their seasons in Russia's Kontinental Hockey League ended.
"Vladislav is an outstanding defenseman who excels at both ends of the ice," Columbus GM Jarmo Kekalainen said. "He is big, strong and mobile and has enjoyed a successful career in the KHL and in international competition, including winning an Olympic gold medal last year. We are very excited about his future with the Columbus Blue Jackets."
___
AP Sports Writers Teresa M. Walker in Nashville, Pat Graham in Denver, Joedy McCreary in Raleigh and Jimmy Golen in Boston and The Canadian Press contributed to this report.
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
TORONTO — The Carolina Hurricanes had a lot on the line entering Tuesday's game against Toronto in their dash for a playoff spot.
The Maple Leafs didn't — and it certainly showed.
Justin Williams and Dougie Hamilton each banked in goals from behind Toronto's net as the Hurricanes picked up two big points in the Eastern Conference wild-card race with a 4-1 victory over the listless Leafs.
"It's exciting," said Hamilton, who also added an empty-netter. "We've been playing playoff hockey for a while now."
Jordan Staal also scored and Petr Mrazek stopped 23 shots for Carolina, which came in having lost three of its past four in regulation as the franchise looks to make the postseason for the first time since 2009 — currently the NHL's longest streak of playoff futility.
The Hurricanes, who were 27th in the overall standings at the end of December, moved into the East's first wild-card spot, a point up on both the Columbus Blue Jackets and ninth-place Montreal Canadiens.
Columbus lost 6-2 to the Boston Bruins on Tuesday, while Montreal beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 4-2. All three teams battling for the East's two wild-card berths have two games left on the schedule.
"We've had a good stretch," Hamilton added. "Hopefully we can keep going for two more games and see where that takes us."
John Tavares scored his 47th goal of the season for Toronto. Garret Sparks made 33 saves.
The Leafs clinched a playoff spot for a third consecutive spring with Monday's 2-1 road victory over the New York Islanders to set up a second-straight first-round matchup with the Bruins.
Playing its third game in four nights, Toronto entered four points back of Boston for second in the Atlantic Division, and home ice in the opening round, but is now guaranteed to start on the road at TD Garden following Tuesday's results.
"We were just a little sluggish to start coming off (Monday) and obviously (playing) a team that was extremely desperate," Tavares said. "We just have to be at a better level than we were to start."
Toronto fell behind 2-0 at 2:13 of the second period on a Carolina power play with Martin Marincin in the box for interference. Sparks made a desperation save on Hamilton at the side of the crease, but the Hurricanes defenseman managed to bank his follow-up effort off the netminder's right leg from below the goal line — Carolina's second from behind the Leafs' net — for the Toronto native's 17th of the season.
The crowd jeered the home side's first shot of the period, and third of the game, less than four minutes into the second, but the Leafs would eventually get on the board when Tavares buried his own rebound on a man advantage at 10:55 to add to his career-high goal and point totals.
Patrick Marleau tipped a shot just wide of Carolina's goal five minutes into the third as Toronto started to push before Mrazek robbed both William Nylander and Kasperi Kapanen on point-blank chances.
But the Hurricanes hemmed the Leafs into their own zone midway through the period, with Staal firing a wrist shot from the high slot for his 10th to make it 3-1 at 9:36.
"Clean shot," Sparks said. "Gotta make the save."
Hamilton then added his second into an empty net with under a minute to play for his career-high 18th.
"Big points," Staal said. "They've got some talented players. They created a few chances and Mrazek was there for us."
Sparks, who got the nod after Andersen made 28 saves in Monday's victory, struggled on Carolina's opener in the first for the lethargic Leafs.
Tavares won a defensive zone draw, but Williams beat Ron Hainsey to the puck and swept a one-handed effort from below the goal line that somehow got between the netminder's skate and the near post for his 23rd.
"It came to the wrong spot — exactly where I didn't need it to go," Sparks said. "It's just a tough bounce."
Lucas Wallmark had a down-and-out Sparks at his mercy earlier in the period, but rang a shot off the iron.
Toronto appeared to go ahead 1-0 when Nylander took a pass from Auston Matthews and beat Mrazek on a 2-on-1 rush at 15:01, but the Hurricanes correctly challenged for offside.
The Leafs' two shots in the opening 20 minutes matched their season low in a first period, something that didn't surprise Toronto coach Mike Babcock, considering what was on the line for both teams.
"It was a different level of emotional engagement," he said. "I don't think that's a big surprise for anybody who's a human being."
NOTES: Curtis McElhinney, whom the Leafs lost to the Hurricanes before the season in favor of keeping Sparks, dressed as Carolina's backup. The veteran McElhinney is 19-11-2 this season with a 2.57 goals-against average and a .912 save percentage. Sparks, 10 years McElhinney's junior, came into Tuesday 8-8-1 with a 3.15 GAA and a .901 save percentage. ... Tavares has 88 points, just two back of Mitch Marner's 90 for the team lead. ... Andersen is scheduled to start Thursday's visit by Tampa and Saturday's regular-season finale in Montreal. ... Boston beat Toronto in seven games in last year's playoffs. ... Leafs defenseman Jake Muzzin (undisclosed) and winger Andreas Johnsson (illness) sat out for Toronto. Johnsson also missed Monday's game. Toronto defenseman Jake Gardiner (back) is expected to suit up for the first time since Feb. 27 on Thursday.
UP NEXT:
Hurricanes: Host New Jersey on Thursday night.
Maple Leafs: Host Tampa Bay on Thursday night.
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
Por Marina Franco
Buen día, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.
¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.
•  México lanza un operativo de búsqueda de emergencia por migrantes desaparecidos. El gobierno mexicano desplegó ayer un grupo de elementos de seguridad y de policías en el estado de Tamaulipas tras reportes sobre la desaparición de entre 19 y 25 migrantes centroamericanos que viajaban en bus por una carretera estatal. El llamado Operativo Búsqueda en Vida es algo nuevo en México después de la aprobación, el año pasado, de la ley sobre desaparición forzada de personas; el gobierno de Andrés Manuel López Obrador estableció en febrero un plan para implementar esa legislación después de que organizaciones de derechos humanos denunciaran que su predecesor había frenado el trabajo.
• En Venezuela intentan recuperarse de los problemas por el apagón, incluyendo los saqueos. En los últimos días cientos de personas saquearon comercios y almacenes en la ciudad venezolana de Maracaibo en medio de la desesperación por un apagón eléctrico que duró desde el jueves hasta el martes; entre los negocios afectados por el vandalismo está una fábrica de hielo, necesario para conservar regrigerados alimentos y medicinas. Además, una ONG afirmó que al menos veinte personas murieron durante el corte de luz por no poder acceder a los cuidados requeridos de hemodiálisis.
• Conmoción en Brasil por un tiroteo escolar que dejó ocho muertos. Cinco estudiantes, dos trabajadores académicos y un vendedor de autos fueron asesinados ayer por la mañana en Suzano, en la región metropolitana de São Paulo, por dos atacantes que la policía identificó como exalumnos del colegio donde abrieron fuego. Los tiroteos en escuelas son inusuales en Brasil y aún no se sabe el motivo del ataque. Los críticos del gobierno señalaron que este episodio ocurre justo cuando el presidente Jair Bolsonaro ha buscado eliminar restricciones para que los civiles puedan comprar y portar armas.
• La sociedad guatemalteca en ascuas por el debate sobre la ley de amnistía. El congreso guatemalteco suspendió ayer a última hora la sesión en la que se preveía la aprobación de reformas muy cuestionadas a la Ley de Reconciliación Nacional, las cuales esencialmente otorgarían amnistía a una treintena de oficiales condenados por delitos de lesa humanidad durante la guerra civil. Al final el voto se pospuso por falta de cuórum; puede que los legisladores hayan decidido ceder a la presión internacional y a las críticas y advertencia de desacato de la Corte Interamericana de Derechos Humanos.
“Para los periodistas, luchar contra una estructura de poder que ha ido limitando cada vez más salvajemente la libertad de expresión y nuestra seguridad es una tarea demandante y agotadora, que sigue exigiendo rigurosidad en medio del caos. Se trata, sin embargo, de una labor indispensable: el periodismo serio ha sido uno de los contrapesos históricos al poder en Venezuela. Y en esa cruzada necesitamos más que nunca del apoyo internacional”.
Luz Mely Reyes, destacada periodista venezolana y directora del medio independiente Efecto Cocuyo, enumera las dificultades que enfrentan quienes quieren reportar la realidad venezolana con datos reales, investigación y sin sesgo en un ambiente “de golpes y hostigamiento” por parte de las autoridades.
A los perros, opino yo, hay que ponerlos en un pedestal porque vaya si merecen un museo. Pues no soy la única que lo cree: el Museum of the Dog [en inglés] fue inaugurado en febrero por el American Kennel Club antes de su exhibición canina anual de Westminster. Hay retratos históricos de canes, un kiosco que te muestra a qué raza te pareces más según una foto, estatuillas, libros y más.
• El éxodo de feligreses ante los escándalos de abuso sexual de la iglesia. La condena de prisión por abuso sexual de menores dictada esta semana contra George Pell, cardenal australiano y hasta hace poco el número tres del Vaticano, ha evidenciado las bancas cada vez más vacías en las iglesias en momentos en que la fe en diversos países católicos se ha visto golpeada por la proliferación de denuncias de acoso y abuso sexual. A finales del año pasado en Chile hubo una “apostasía colectiva” y en los últimos meses en Estados Unidos algunos obispos de diócesis donde hay denuncias de abuso sexual han ofrecido misas de disculpa y de reparación a sus fieles.
• El duelo por la caída del avión de Ethiopia Airlines y las suspensiones de vuelos. Entre las 157 víctimas mortales que iban a bordo del Boeing 737 Max 8 que se estrelló el domingo había una familia indio-canadiense: abuelos, padres y dos adolescentes ansiosos por visitar Kenia juntos. Esta es la historia de los Vaidya y Dixit.
La investigación sobre la caída continúa, mientras los reguladores aéreos de prácticamente todo el mundo han ordenado mantener en tierra sus unidades de este modelo de Boeing; ayer, autoridades canadienses y estadounidenses indicaron [en inglés] que el vuelo de Ehtiopia Airlines parece haber tenido problemas similares a los del avión Boeing que cayó en octubre en Indonesia.
• La Tierra está enferma y nos está haciendo enfermar como nunca, alerta la ONU. El nuevo informe de científicos y expertos del Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Medio Ambiente, publicado ayer, tiene una advertencia contundente: nuestra salud estará cada vez más bajo  amenazas ambientales si no revertimos la tendencia actual del cambio climático y la degradación ambiental. A la par de la creciente extracción de recursos no renovables, van aumentado la resistencia antimicrobiana, el desperdicio de comida y la polución por los plásticos, que amenaza nuestras fuentes de agua potable.
• Este plan ambiental podría ayudar a revertir la tendencia. Costa Rica es uno de los países que ha puesto en marcha un plan ambiental ambicioso para evitar prevenir que empeore la situación. Su Plan Nacional de Descarbonización prevé, entre otras cosas, que un tercio de los autobuses sean eléctricos para 2035 y que casi todos los vehículos lo sean para 2050. Si su estrategia para reducir las emisiones de gases de efecto invernadero el país centroamericano establecería una hoja de ruta para que otras naciones puedan lograr lo mismo.
• Uniformes que dan potencia a las futbolistas, sin ser calcos ni derivados. La equipación que usarán las seleccionadas del Mundial de Futbol Femenil Francia 2019 no tiene por qué ser idéntica a la que portaron el año pasado las selecciones mundialistas varoniles y parece que Nike y Adidas por fin se dieron cuenta. Los uniformes presentados esta semana lo muestran: muchos de los grabados son distintos a los de las camisetas varoniles y ahora sí consultaron con las deportistas qué tipo de entallado y cuello les funciona mejor y les gusta. Es un ligero avance después de las últimas denuncias de futbolistas colombianas por acoso y falta de apoyo en todos los órdenes, así como la demanda por discriminación de género de la selección mayor estadounidense.
• El Barça repunta en la Liga de Campeones; el Bayern queda fuera. El equipo blaugrana venció ayer 5-1 al Lyon y se recuperó de un empate a cero en el partido de ida, para lograr el pase a cuartos de final en el torneo europeo. Un día antes, la Juventus clasificó gracias al triplete de Cristiano Ronaldo y el Manchester City destrozó con un marcador global de 10-2 al alemán Schalke, suerte similar al de su equipo compatriota Bayern Munich, que perdió ayer contra el Liverpool. Mañana es el sorteo para los encuentros de cuartos de final.
• Quiere ser el primer jugador mexicano en la NHL, pero su camino pasa por Lituania. Héctor Majul cuenta que como atleta estudiantil en Arizona varios le preguntaban por qué jugaba hockey sobre hielo —le decían que “debería estar jugando futbol”, cuenta—, pero que eso no detuvo sus sueños de ser el primer jugador profesional de la NHL nacido en México. Su meta se vio relativamente interrumpida por un tema migratorio en Estados Unidos, pero entre tanto se está preparando en un lugar inesperado: Lituania.
Esta semana, al presentar una acusación por fraude contra cincuenta figuras poderosas en Estados Unidos que habrían sobornado y manipulado para que sus hijos fueran admitidos en universidades de élite, el fiscal encargado del caso dijo: “Las verdaderas víctimas en este caso son los estudiantes” que fueron desplazados por aspirantes “mucho menos calificados y sus familias que simplemente compraron su ingreso”.
Algunos de nuestros lectores comentaron que, de todos modos, las inversiones de los padres son un desperdicio: “Hay cosas que el dinero no puede comprar, como la inteligencia y el deseo de superación”, sostuvo un lector, y, por eso, “al final será un dinero perdido que terminará en un título colgado para adornar una pared”, dijo en Twitter. Otro fue muy honesto al respecto: “Yo también lo haría si pudiera”, escribió.

Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas nuestras recomendaciones para el fin de semana y una selección de artículos sobre salud e historias de amor.
También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.
Corrección: 14 de marzo de 2019
En una versión anterior de este artículo, equivocamos el marcador del partido de ayer entre el F. C. Barcelona y el Lyon, que terminó 5-1.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
Dead-last in the NHL in early January, the St. Louis Blues looked like underachievers who cost their head coach his job and wouldn't remain together for long.
Then the Blues did the improbable, winning 30 of their final 45 games to become the seventh team since the expansion era began in 1967 to go from last in the league after New Year's Day to the playoffs.
But the transformation didn't begin from rock bottom of the standings on the morning of Jan 3. St. Louis' roller-coaster ride started when it missed the playoffs by one point a year ago, rose with offseason additions of Ryan O'Reilly, David Perron, Tyler Bozak and Patrick Maroon and took a steep drop with a November firing of coach Mike Yeo before the steady climb began.
Through a gelling process that took far longer than expected, a transition to interim coach Craig Berube, amid the noise of trade speculation that could've broken up the core and during a 70-day stretch spent almost entirely on the road, the Blues became the Stanley Cup contender they looked like before the season and are now ready to prove it in the playoffs.
"We showed that we get the job done here together," forward Brayden Schenn said. "We have a veteran group, experienced group that I think we can do hopefully some damage in the playoffs."
Playoffs? Until mid-January, the Blues didn't win three straight games.
Looking back, general manager Doug Armstrong didn't bank on how long it would take the team to coalesce with so many new players.
"There was a lot of really good players that were respectful of each other, almost too respectful, and nobody wanted to step on anyone's toes and take charge," Armstrong said. "It was the perfect storm in a positive way that we had an experienced group of players that were embarrassed. Craig simplified his message, which I think for a veteran team is appreciated, and then they responded to the embarrassment I think that they were feeling and we were feeling as an organization."
The embarrassment of a second midseason coaching change in three years and 22 losses in their first 37 games made for a good start. Then reports surfaced that Armstrong was at least listening on trading just about anyone on the roster from five-time 30-goal-scoring winger Vladimir Tarasenko to 25-year-old defenseman Colton Parayko.
Players believe the trade talk lit a fire under them.
"We didn't want to split up," forward Oskar Sundqvist said. "We kind of came together as a group and said we don't want to split up, we want to stay together and we obviously need to play a lot better and start winning some hockey games for that to happen."
The Blues' front office and coaching staff noticed improvement in December, but the positive results didn't start showing until right around the time of goaltender Jordan Binnington's first start Jan. 7. The 25-year-old went 13-1-1 in his first 15 starts and gave St. Louis an unexpected boost.
As Armstrong said, if the Blues knew Binnington would be league-best 1.89 goals-against average and .927 save percentage good, "We would've had him up here a couple years ago."
Touche.
But it wasn't just Binnington. Led by O'Reilly, Parayko and captain Alex Pietrangelo, St. Louis became more structured and better defensively under Berube, who finally saw tangible results of molding this group into a heavy, north-south team.
Because teams rarely dig out of this deep a hole and the Blues' schedule was so road-heavy in the second half, it was still a tough task to think they'd make the playoffs. Then they went over two months from mid-January to mid-March never playing consecutive home games, and instead of falling apart, the Blues bonded away from home and put together a season-saving 11-game winning streak.
"At that time when we went on the road, it was like two months basically on the road, we were in a position where we had to win," Berube said. "These guys did a good job, they came together as a team and played really well over that span and we're in the position we're in because of that."
Games during that streak resonate to different members of the Blues. Veteran defenseman Jay Bouwmeester remembers the victory at Anaheim before the All-Star break that gave the team a much-needed "reset." Armstrong won't soon forget his team's third-period comeback at Florida two games later that kept the good vibrations going into an overtime victory at Tampa Bay and a sweep of a home-and-home series against Nashville.
"We got on a positive roll of winning games and we were playing every other night, so you really start to get into the groove," Armstrong said. "That was a big stretch of games in there where I think the belief was cemented in our minds that I'm not saying we're the best team in the league, but we felt we could compete with the better teams in the league at that point."
Armstrong said he never came close to pulling the trigger on a major trade that would've shaken up the core, in large part because it was too far away from the deadline to make such a move. That's not exactly a ringing endorsement that he didn't want to make a move but rather an acknowledgement that a fellow GM would've likelier thrown him an anchor than a life preserver.
Finally playing up to expectations allowed the Blues to finish third in the Central Division, and they'll face second-place Winnipeg in the first round.
Bouwmeester considers the Blues underdogs going into the playoffs because they started from the bottom. But now they're here and look more than capable of making a long run.
"You look over the season just how well we've been able to rally and find a way and crawl back into it, I'm very confident in our group that we can have success," O'Reilly said. "Throughout the season, we beat some great hockey teams we feel we can beat anyone. Going into it, there's definitely a lot of belief, but at the same time it's a lot of hard work that we're looking forward to doing."
___
___
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Carol Schram
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Canada can deliver the crowds, but the rest of the hockey world is catching up when it comes to delivering on-ice results at the World Junior Championship, the top international under-20 men’s hockey tournament.
On Saturday, Finland earned its third gold medal in the last six years in the event, beating the United States, 3-2, in the championship game.
Saturday’s matchup was the first gold medal game between Finland and the United States at the World Junior Championship, but those teams have regularly been on the podium in recent years in an event once dominated by Canada.
Since 1977, Canada has won 17 gold medals, including two runs of five straight titles: from 1993 to 1997, and again from 2005 to 2009.
But this year’s tournament now will live in infamy — at least in Canada — as the first time the Canadians failed to earn a medal when serving as the tournament’s host. Finland eliminated Canada, 2-1 in overtime, in the quarterfinals. Canada has won the event only twice in the last 10 years, while Finland and the United States have each brought home three golds.
The United States is the only country to have reached the podium in each of the last four years (gold in 2017, silver in 2019 and bronze in 2016 and 2018). The Americans’ seven podium appearances in the last 10 years (three gold, one silver, three bronze) are second only to Russia’s eight (one gold, three silver, four bronze).
Finland’s gold was its fifth in tournament history and the federation’s first victory in North America, where games are played on a smaller ice surface than they are in Europe.
“You’re starting to see some teams get into this portion of the tournament regularly,” United States Coach Mike Hastings said. “I think that says a lot about all the programs that we’re talking about — all the countries. This is a very difficult tournament. Seeing who was here at the end — it’s hard to get here. For the countries that are doing it on a consistent basis, I think that says something about where they’re at.”
Dave Starman, an analyst for the tournament for NHL Network, is also a member of the coaching education program with USA Hockey. He said the recent success of American teams could be attributed in large part to a new development model that was introduced 10 years ago.
“We have absolutely reshaped how we’re teaching the game and how we’re teaching coaches how to teach the game,” Starman said. “We have really emphasized small-area games, and it goes along with age-appropriate practices.
“If we play a lot more 3-on-3, 2-on-2, where younger kids are touching the puck more, they’re in an environment where they’re going to have more fun and be more involved,” he added. “Not only are they going to have more fun and want to come back, they’re going to get better because they’re constantly involved in the play.”
The emphasis is the same in Finland, Starman said.
“A lot of their parents and their organizations don’t care who wins the average game by shortening a bench so they can win a game,” he said. “Their players play, and they use their bench. They believe in player development.”
The trends from the World Junior Championship are now showing up in the N.H.L., too. Over the last decade, the American and Finnish federations have increased the number of players they have delivered to the N.H.L.
In 2009-10, the season that John Carlson’s overtime goal in Saskatoon gave the United States a 6-5 win over Canada in the final, 22 percent of N.H.L. players (212) hailed from the United States, while 4 percent (38) came from Finland, according to Quant Hockey.
This season, the N.H.L. is up to 240 American players (26.8 percent) and 49 Finns (5.5 percent). With Finland’s Mikko Rantanen and the Americans Johnny Gaudreau and Patrick Kane among the league’s top scorers, it is not surprising to see that the number of points produced by players from the two nations also has increased — to 26.2 percent from 19.4 in 2009-10 for Americans and to 5.7 percent from 3.8 for Finns.
Jack Hughes, 17, a forward on this year’s American team, is expected to be the No. 1 pick in the N.H.L. draft in June. Kaapo Kakko, 17, who scored the gold medal-winning goal with 1 minute 26 seconds left Saturday, and his teammate Anttoni Honka will be looking to follow in the footsteps of Patrik Laine of the Winnipeg Jets, Jesse Puljujarvi of the Edmonton Oilers and Olli Juolevi of the Vancouver Canucks from Finland’s gold-winning team in 2016; all were selected in the top five at that year’s N.H.L. draft. (A Canadian player has not been chosen No. 1 over all since Connor McDavid in 2015.)
Hockey Canada’s chief executive, Tom Renney, said he recognized the value of increased parity.
“I think if we want this game to be global, we have to recognize it has arrived — that other federations can compete and compete very well,” he said. “I think it’s healthy.”
He added: “You can look at any number of games that we’ve had up to this point in time and recognize that it’s millimeters or milliseconds that can change the outcome of the game. That is certainly fan-friendly, and in my mind, it encourages children to play.”



Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Dave Caldwell
VOORHEES, N.J. — There they were, four pairs of goaltender pads propped up in front of a row of stalls in the Philadelphia Flyers’ locker room last week, a testament to one of the more intriguing story lines on the team.
“The good news is that none of them are mine,” said Scott Gordon, the Flyers’ interim coach and a goaltender for the Quebec Nordiques for 23 games in the early 1990s.
Because of injuries, the Flyers have gone through seven goalies this season, tying an N.H.L. record that is shared by three other teams, Gordon’s 1989-90 Nordiques among them. That explains all the pads — with two goalies now suiting up for games and two others still rehabilitating and getting closer to a return.
The upside of all this upheaval is that the Flyers, for now, are thriving because they had to turn to their top goaltending prospect — 20-year-old Carter Hart — for help.
Hart, a second-round draft choice in 2016, began this season playing for the Flyers’ top farm team, the Lehigh Valley Phantoms, and the plan was to keep him there, with Gordon as his head coach.
Plans change. Now both of them are with the Flyers, promoted at the same time when Coach Dave Hakstol was fired in December.
Hart won his first two games to extend what had been regarded as a tryout, then later reeled off eight straight victories — tying an N.H.L. record for a goalie under 21 — before the Flyers lost Monday to Pittsburgh, 4-1, with him in the net.
“He’s handled all of the situations that have been presented to him in an exceptional manner,” said Gordon, who previously coached the Islanders from 2008 to 2010. “We’re seeing a lot of maturity that you’re not usually seeing in a 20-year-old.”
Because he has two goaltenders — Brian Elliott and Michal Neuvirth — who are working their way back to full health, Gordon does not want to say if Hart will stay with the team for the remainder of the season. Four healthy goalies are, well, a lot of goalies. But Hart said he was planning to move into the old apartment of his Flyers teammate Jake Voracek. Maybe that’s a sign that he’s not going anywhere.
“The guys have really welcomed me here,’’ Hart said recently, while standing in a quiet corner of the dressing room. “They’ve been really great to me.’’
A native of Sherwood Park, Alberta, Hart said he had become quite aware since he was drafted that taking on the role as the Flyers’ goaltender of the future meant dealing with the demanding standards of Philadelphia’s fans.
The Flyers have not won the Stanley Cup since 1975, when goalie Bernie Parent helped lead the team known as the Broad Street Bullies to their second straight title. The Flyers have lost in the Stanley Cup finals six times since then, most recently in 2010.
Before they drafted Hart, the Flyers selected five goaltenders in the first or second round since that 1975 Stanley Cup triumph. One of them, Anthony Stolarz, is now a backup. Another, Brian Boucher, the team’s No. 1 pick in 1995, did go on to win 21 playoff games for the Flyers. But not the Stanley Cup.
“It’s difficult. There’s pressure,” said Boucher, now 42 and a hockey analyst for the Flyers, NBC Sports and the NHL Network. “The bar was set high by Bernie Parent in the ‘70s, and the fans are longing for those glory days to come back.’’
Parent retired early, at the age of 34, after sustaining a career-ending eye injury in February 1979. That same year, the Flyers drafted another goalie, Pelle Lindbergh, in the second round and he led the Flyers to the Stanley Cup finals in 1985. But later that year, he was fatally injured in an automobile crash; he had been to a team party and was intoxicated when the accident occurred.
Ron Hextall became the next standout Flyers goalie and was part of Philadelphia teams that went to the Cup finals in 1987 and 1997, again without winning a championship. He became the Flyers’ general manager in 2014 but was dismissed last November.
Now Hart has moved into the crease and quickly distinguished himself.
“So far, he’s done a nice job of handling it,’’ Boucher said. “Still a small window, but he’s done a really nice job.”
The decision to call up Hart and, at the same time, install Gordon as the interim coach, was made by Chuck Fletcher, who took over as the Flyers’ general manager when Hextall was let go. He called the pair of moves “a coincidence.”
Although there was concern that Hart would be joining a floundering team and might struggle at the outset, the decision to promote him now looks like a masterstroke.
Hart has been so steady and unflappable — even as opponents have taken early leads in games — that the Flyers have actually crept into the race for a playoff spot. With a 26-24-7 record, including a 5-4 victory over the Minnesota Wild on Tuesday in Stolarz in goal, the Flyers were just 8 points from a wild-card berth entering Thursday’s games.
“He’s going to only continue to get better,” Flyers defenseman Ivan Provorov, who is all of 22, said of Hart. “It’s impressive. He plays with a lot of confidence as a young goaltender. You don’t see that often.”
Hart, who had played junior hockey for the Everett Silvertips in the Western Hockey League for the past four seasons, won his N.H.L. debut on Dec. 19 at home against Detroit, 3-2. He stopped 31 of 32 shots in a victory over Nashville two nights later. The Flyers, adjusting to Gordon, lost seven of the next eight games that Hart started, but his new teammates spotted a trait.
“It’s his maturity — the way he acts around us and on the ice,” Flyers center Sean Couturier said. “He’s way above his years.”
Elliott, 33, and Neuvirth, 30, are hoping to return soon from lower-body injuries. Elliott, out since November, resumed on-ice workouts last month.
His assessment of Hart? “He just stays within himself, and the more patient you are in letting pucks come to you, the better,’’ Elliott said. “It’s like swinging a golf club. You swing too hard, you’ll slice it.”
Elliott suggested that Hart might have benefited from being called up in the middle of the season, when the Flyers were struggling. Perhaps the challenge would have been more difficult had Hart been made the No. 1 goalie entering a season.
Hart shrugged when asked about that notion. “Honestly, when I came up here, there was a lot of stuff going on from a management standpoint, but as one of the players, you just have to go out and do your job,’’ he said.
It’s a job that, for now at least, he is doing astoundingly well.



Advertisement
Liam Kirk, 18, was the first hockey player born and trained in England to be selected in the N.H.L. draft. CreditCreditChris Donovan for The New York Times
Supported by
By Dhiren Mahiban
MISSISSAUGA, Ontario — Liam Kirk occasionally takes a 15-minute stroll from Peterborough Memorial Centre to The UK Shoppe in search of a taste of home. Kirk, 18, is 3,400 miles away from his family in Maltby, England, playing ice hockey — a sport many of his friends teased him about while growing up.
In June, the Arizona Coyotes used a seventh-round pick to select Kirk, making him the first player born and trained in England to be chosen in the N.H.L. draft.
Now Kirk finds himself in Peterborough, Ontario, a suburb 87 miles northeast of Toronto, playing for the Ontario Hockey League’s Petes in the hopes of adapting to smaller rink and faster style of the North American game and developing enough to earn a contract from the Coyotes.
“The adjustments have been a little difficult,” said Kirk, who had only two goals in his first 23 games. “Obviously, moving to a new country, away from your family and stuff like that. It’s the best junior league in the world, still got to adjust to that.”
Max Kolu, an amateur scout based in Helsinki, Finland, was the first member of the Coyotes’ organization to watch Kirk play in person, traveling to Sheffield, England, last season to see him with the Steelers of the Elite Ice Hockey League.
“Really raw, but showed some skill, good feel with the puck and skated well,” Kolu said.
Kirk became interested in hockey as a child because his parents, Matthew and Maureen, took him and his older brother, Jonathan, to Sheffield Steelers games about 15 miles from Maltby.
Kirk played three seasons with the Steelers in the Elite Ice Hockey League, which comprises 11 teams from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. According to the league website, ice hockey is the third largest winter spectator sport in Britain, after soccer and rugby.
According to the International Ice Hockey Federation, there are 8,162 registered players in Britain, 3,751 of whom are junior-age like Kirk, in a country with a population of about 65 million. 
Only 52 British-born players, most before the 1960s, have suited up in at least one N.H.L. game, but never has a player born and trained exclusively there, like Kirk, done so. 
Forward Tony Hand, an Edinburgh native, was selected by the Edmonton Oilers in the 12th round of the 1986 draft. He played just three games in junior hockey in Canada before returning home. Center Colin Shields, who is also Scottish, was taken in the sixth round of the 2000 draft by the Philadelphia Flyers but returned to Britain after playing college hockey at Maine and a few seasons in the ECHL.
[Read about Tony Hand, Britain’s lone hockey icon.]
Matthew Kirk, Liam’s father, understood that for his son to pursue his N.H.L. dream, he needed to leave home. Once Liam turned 18 and finished his schooling, he was welcome to explore opportunities to further his hockey career.
“I think he’s got no choice, to be fair,” Matthew Kirk said during a recent trip to Peterborough. “Obviously, his goal is to play in the N.H.L., so he’s got to come across the pond and match himself against the kids of his own age.”
Kirk’s background has companies lining up to attach their name to the 6-foot-1, 167-pound wing.
During the annual scouting combine in June, the equipment makers Bauer and True Hockey met with Kirk to outfit him with gear, unusual for a player not considered a top prospect. In October, EA Sports, maker of the NHL 19 video game, released a roster update for download, which included Kirk in its social media posts.
A Sheffield sporting goods store called Puck Stop, which specializes in hockey equipment, made 39 Peterborough Petes’ Kirk jerseys available online in October. They sold out in less than three hours.
“They’re cluing in too that he’s becoming a way bigger star than I think even he expected,” said Kirk’s agent, Nic Mayne. “If he continues to work hard and makes it, he’s got this built-in fan base that is going to continue to embrace him.”
Kirk’s success has prompted agents like Mayne to pay closer attention to talent in Britain. 
“Just the fact that there’s two or three players in the U.K. that I’m watching; before Liam, I never even would’ve thought that,” Mayne said. “I think absolutely it’s opened the door and created some buzz.”
Kirk, who entered Friday with nine goals and eight assists in 31 games, is not the only Englishman playing hockey in a North American league. Mason Alderson-Biddulph, 17, a native of Bromley, plays for the Islanders Hockey Club in the National Collegiate Development Conference, a 12-team junior hockey league in the northeastern United States. He is hoping to land an N.C.A.A. scholarship before turning pro.
His father, Brian Biddulph, began playing ice hockey in England at 14 and came to Canada when he was 19 — too old to have much success in North America. 
Biddulph spent the 1986-87 season playing for the Langley Eagles in the British Columbia Hockey League, a Tier II junior league often used as a steppingstone to an N.C.A.A. scholarship.
“The routes were to either go major junior or have four years of schooling that could possibly be paid for and then I could have a degree at the end of it, a sustained life and a good job,” said Alderson-Biddulph, who is eligible for the 2020 draft. 
Based in North Andover, Mass., Alderson-Biddulph thought the Islanders Hockey Club would give him exposure to colleges playing in Hockey East. Through 18 games, the 6-foot-2, 185-pound wing had two goals and three assists.
An 11th grader at Triton Regional High School in Byfield, Mass., Alderson-Biddulph has had discussions with the likes of Colgate, Princeton and St. Lawrence.
He said that in England, “it’s fun being a big fish in a small pond, but you really don’t know how good you are until you jump into the sea.” 
Alderson-Biddulph added, “I just wanted to see how I’d fare against the kids that play every day in and out like the same way a British kid would play” soccer.
Hockey in Britain is expected to gain more attention in May when the national men’s team competes in the world championship tournament against powers like Canada, Sweden and Russia for the first time since 1994. Britain, 22nd in the world rankings, was promoted to the top division after winning gold at the Division I Group A world championship last April. Kirk was on that team and is expected to be on the squad in May, too.
He is hoping his journey can shed light on the game in Britain and open doors for others who have N.H.L. aspirations.
“I hope that I’m not the last, and a few other people do come and do it,” he said. “British hockey is actually a real thing; it sounds funny, but hopefully I’m not the only one who does it.”
Advertisement
The winning and losing coaches discuss the Chicago Blackhawks’ defeat of the Tampa Bay Lightning in the Stanley Cup finals.










Advertisement

NOV. 21, 2017



John Branch, a sports reporter at The New York Times, has been in sporadic contact via text messaging and email with Walter Peat since writing about him and his son Stephen, a former N.H.L. player.
At the time of the article, in June 2016, Stephen Peat was 36 and experiencing debilitating headaches and violent mood swings. Peat was primarily an enforcer, a player designated to drop his gloves and square off in fist-to-fist combat with an opponent. The Peats presumed that Stephen’s problems were rooted in brain trauma sustained on the ice in so many fights. 
Walter Peat, the head saw filer at a lumber mill in a suburb of Vancouver, British Columbia, gave The Times permission to publish the texts and emails he had sent John over the previous 18 months. Some have been trimmed for concision. 
(Stephen disputes his father's accounts and said, “I am disappointed in my father since I once held him so high on a pedestal.”)
Again, we thank you for doing our story, which hasn’t ended yet. I just hope Stephen can get some help, going forward. We had a great day yesterday, as just the 2 of us went boating for the day. Beautiful day, making memories together.
Dr. Rizos,
We are at a critical point in Stephen’s health. I am afraid, Stephen may become another statistic in NHL players who’s life is ended due to brain injuries suffered from playing. We are desperate for help, as we have run out of resources and energy to cope with this. The NHL has offered zero help. I am sorry we haven’t contacted you sooner, but Stephen is stubborn, and proud. It has gone past that, and hope someone will help. He is suffering badly from memory loss, depression, extreme headaches, and at times suicide thoughts. Along with this, tough when he get frustrated and anger comes out. He has got violent a couple times, and at times I am afraid for my life. I love my son very much, and you have no idea how much this hurts to see him like this. Please help.
Just an update on Stephen, not sure if the NHL might want to know, but Stephen is in lockup, been arrested 2 times in the last week for parole violation. May spend the next 6 months in jail, he is real bad shape, and like I said before, I don’t have the resources or the knowledge to deal with this. I saw him yesterday, looks horrible, he is homeless. I know one can lead a horse to water theory, but I am afraid this could be very close to his end. At times he has no idea who he is or where he is.
Stephen needs special medical attention badly, as I also believe he has gone back to self medicating, not sure, but you can’t imagine what bad shape he is in. I fear he may not make it out of lock up, but there is nothing I can do, or don’t know what to do. The system is flawed.
He is in lock up now, most likely won’t get released now. Only violation is not seeing his parole officer, but he forgets, a complete mess right now. Probably the safest place for him, but he won’t get fixed in a cement cell.
I will be honest, my health has suffered thru this, and I am at a financial crisis as Stephen has gone through $120,000 since getting out of rehab. And he is demanding more every day, to a point if I continue this, I will be on the street. Stephen can’t comprehend my financial stress he has put on me. I went to meet him at Clover Towing the other day, Stephen looked in real bad shape, as he didn’t even know I was there. I had to leave, and stop in a parking lot next door and just broke down. The police were called by the towing company and they took him to jail. He should be in a hospital, not a jail, we can talk more about this. I will say I have had to get a no contact order as I fear for my safety now. If he is in a state where he doesn’t know who I am, it scares me.
John, sorry for not getting back to you. It has been a real shit show with Stephen this last few days. I have been overwhelmed with just trying to deal with him. I will try to contact you when it settles down here. Tks for your concern and interest.
I think it best we do not have any contact at all, and if he needs to contact me, maybe a mediator, or thru you if possible. 
I need to step away, and allow my son to hit bottom on his own.
 I DO NOT WANT ANY CONTACT AT ALL, FROM THIS DAY FORWARD.
I am not sure what there is to discuss. it seems no one wants to help, just rubber stamp things until my son dies. He has had no help from the NHL, and from what I can assume, no help from the government, or law authorities. It is well document that my son suffers from concussion issues, and he is treated like a common criminal. yes, he is breaking the law, but, what is the root cause. His doctors say he is doing drugs, maybe he is, but why, again the root cause. It is very well document that many of these players or people who suffer from concussion syndrome reach out for a solution, but end up with drugs off the street to solve their problem.
He was a young man who had thousand of fans cheering for him every time he dropped the gloves, fighting for the Langley Thunder Junior team, the Calgary Hitman, Red Deer Rebels, Tri City Americans.
Stephen played for the Washington Capitals, for 4 years, one time had 13 fights in 12 games, bare knuckle fights with big guys, some who are already dead now due to concussion related injuries. Yet, here we are, trying to put Stephen in jail because no one has any idea what to do with him. Yes, my brothers and I have asked for a no contact order, as we are concerned for our safety, but at the same time, we love him, and fear every phone call we get, it is someone to tell us he has died. I will tell you this, that John Branch wants to do a follow up story, NY Times, and this story will have an ending. Sad. How we write that ending is up to all of us, I have tried my best, and much like Stephen, have had the door closed in my face. I am 66 years old, sold my house to help, running out of funds, and really, my health has gone south because of this. I have avoided talking to John Branch as it is very difficult talking about a lost cause. Many night, I cry myself to sleep, trying to figure out a new plan. But, no matter what I do, I wake up to an endless problem.
His life is at stake, he used to be the most polite young man, straight “A’ in school, and now, he can’t remember why he gets up in the morning.
Sincerely
Walter Peat
Hi John
Tks for replying. Not sure, but the fact Stephen is deteriorating fast, living on the street, has pretty much zero help from NHL, and my relationship with him had gone south. With his condition, he needs professional help, as I would suggest his mind set has gone off the rails. I made arrangements for him to stay at my brothers, and both brothers are pretty much handicap, but ended up being removed by the police for threats, etc. his mind leaves him lost at times. Confused, aggressive, and I will be honest, he scares the shit out of me, and for that matter my brothers. It saddens me to seem helpless as Stephen has accused me of interfering in his affairs. I have no idea how to tell this horror story, but I am sure there are many living this nightmare. I am thinking that this may all come out one day, but my biggest fear is my son will not be with us, as he even talks about suicide at times. every time I get an email or an unknown number calling me, about him, I fear the worst news. The legal system, and the medical system hear only wants to paint him as a criminal or a drug addict. I would suggest both may be the case, as his situation has forced him to do what ever it takes to relieve the pain, anxiety etc, from the headaches.
Again, I am a normal person who loves hockey, but to see what the game has become, and the end result of the violence allowed on the ice. The worst is the fact, that most sports teams are still in the dark as far as recognizing the health risks associated with many sports. The rule book must be re:written.
Right now, I am at a loss of what to do, and who to turn to for help. Many night, I lose countless hours of sleep, thinking of what will happen, and am I doing the right thing. There are so many people who prefer to put a paper bag over their head and ignore the fact that Stephen or so many players suffer from these injuries. But, the injuries just don’t stop there, as the emotional, financial, and in some cases, physical injuries suffered by family members. I am living the nightmare of the movie “Concussion”,
I honestly have no idea where to take this, other that keep trying to tell the story, and maybe others won’t feel so lonely, like they are on a deserted island.
He is so mad at me, that it has come to yelling at me, making threats, etc, as really, I was/am the only person left in his life trying to help, as many just look at him, as just another person on the the  street, and bum dumpster diving for food. 
John, I am open to anything that may bring this into into the open, so people can see what hockey is breeding. And where many of it’s players end up. it is so sad that Stephen had his own cheering section in Washington, but now, many of his fans have now idea or care what he is doing.
Sincerely
Walter
John,
I personally would not have a problem with that. Fact is, I feel like I am the one who has failed my son, as I feel I have has the ability to fix anything. This is something I struggle with everyday. I will admit I have tears in my eyes as I respond to this, as Stephen is texting me right now, begging for money. Says he can hardly lift his arms, as he is so weak, starving, cold, but still blames me for all that has happened to him. Some days, I find this whole nightmare like a bad dream, wishing I could wake up, and it was all over.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
Wordplay
Ryan McCarty starts our solving weekend off right.
By Deb Amlen
I like to think that I am more than proficient in my knowledge of hot beverages, but today I learned about a new one called HYSON tea, spelled as the plural in Ryan McCarty’s puzzle. There is also a brand named Hyson, but the tea we sip at the end of Mr. McCarty’s puzzle is a green tea from China. Fun fact: 15 chests of Young Hyson were among those thrown overboard in the Boston Tea Party. See? You never know what you’ll learn by solving crossword puzzles.
There’s a lot of great stuff in Mr. McCarty’s puzzle, including 10 debuts. Of those, my favorites were WAR STORIES, CORPSE POSE (my best pose in yoga, because it essentially requires nothing more than lying on the floor and taking a nap), WATER TAXIS and, of course, RARE JEWELS, which made me think of George Balanchine’s ballet:
Even the entries that aren’t debuts are lots of fun. We have I’M A COP, NOT ONE IOTA, STARTER SET, AIRPOPS, NO USE, PRIDE PARADE (with a fabulous clue), JEEZ, NAME CALLER and OH STOP.
The cluing is challenging and fun, and I found it to be an all around enjoyable entry into our solving weekend. Well done, Mr. McCarty.
1A: Why can’t I remember this one? The television show “Dragnet” was a bit before my time, but I remember watching it in reruns. And yet every time Sgt. Joe Friday is mentioned in a crossword clue, all I can think of is either the ominous theme, “Dah … dah DUM dum!” or his ubiquitous “Just the facts, ma’am.” But at the beginning of each episode, Jack Webb, who played Sergeant Friday in the series, would intone: “This is the city: Los Angeles, California. I work here. I’M A COP.”
7A: One of those clues that sounds like a riddle: “It’s not damaged by being broken.” If someone breaks the LAW, the law itself isn’t damaged.
25A: We’re not supposed to be thinking about senators in politics in this clue. “Senators’ grp.” hints at the hockey team, the Ottawa Senators, and the answer is the also abbreviated NHL.
30A: This gets my vote for Clue of the Day. To “Outmarch?” someone is to march farther or perhaps faster, but with that “?” at the end of the clue, there is some Wordplay afoot. Today, the answer is PRIDE PARADE, a celebration of those who are out.
53A: You might think that a “Canyon producer” might be a meteorite, but that would be too easy for a Friday. In today’s puzzle, the carmaker GMC produces the Canyon. That, by the way, is a veiled capital clue. The capital letter in the brand name Canyon is hidden at the beginning of the clue sentence to trick the solver. You can practice on more of these in our solving guide. 
This puzzle is somewhat of a tribute to Patrick Berry’s Jan. 10, 2014, puzzle. I fell in love with his wide open grid, and it was after solving it that I decided to try making themeless puzzles myself. Several years later, my version has a similar layout to his, with a “gaping maw” (as I affectionately like to call it) in the middle.
It took a lot of trial and error, as you might imagine, to fill the center. My goal was to make each of the longer entries in both the five stacked Across answers and the four interlocking Down answers interesting, as well as to stay away from proper names, as I had had a habit of overusing them. Over all, I’m very satisfied with the result.
My effort to also keep the corners wide open came with some sacrifices. The NW feels a bit like Jenga, with all of those interlocking shorter words, and the SE has the unfortunate plural HYSONS, which I personally accepted only because I had actually had hyson tea before. It allowed me to keep RARE JEWELS though, so looking back I still think it’s justified. Even so, it may have been worth adding an extra black square to these corners to give some more wiggle room. …
I enjoy making lower word count themeless puzzles, so I’ll probably stick with these types for a while. Hope you enjoy!
Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.
Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.
Your thoughts?
Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay 
Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Tal Pinchevsky
LOS ANGELES — Only minutes after his team completed an exciting 4-3 win against the Los Angeles Kings on Saturday night, Edmonton Oilers forward Leon Draisaitl already had his hockey gear removed and was standing in front of the television in the visitors’ locker room at Staples Center.
Draisaitl, a 22-year-old center, was captivated by a different game: a back-and-forth affair between his native Germany’s Olympic team and its Russian opponent for the gold medal at the Pyeongchang Olympics.
“I’m trying to watch it right now,” Draisaitl said, holding off reporters attempting to interview him about the Oilers’ victory, which was decided by a last-second video review that overturned what the Kings believed to be a tying goal.
Preoccupied much of the night with Edmonton’s battle against Los Angeles, Draisaitl had to wait until the Oilers’ victory was secured to find out how his countrymen were faring against a heavily-favored Russian team that eventually won, 4-3, in overtime.
“We had our own game to play,” Draisaitl said, his eyes fixed on the final minutes from South Korea playing out on a nearby television.
Draisaitl’s enthusiasm notwithstanding, interest in the Olympic hockey finale appeared to be muted on a busy night of 12 N.H.L. games, 10 of which were played in arenas at or near their capacity.
In the Kings’ locker room at Staples Center, the German forward Tobias Rieder was not watching the gold medal game after his team’s disappointing loss. A recent trade acquisition from the Arizona Coyotes, Rieder had celebrated Germany’s upset of Canada in the Olympic semifinals by wearing a gold jersey at practice on Friday, along with red tape on his black socks to mimic the German flag.
Before the Kings took the ice against the Oilers, he had expressed excitement for the gold medal matchup, even if he wasn’t entirely sure what time the final started. “I thought they played at four in the morning,” he said, inadvertently acknowledging a halfhearted interest shared by some fans.
“If I came across it when it was on, I would watch it,” the Kings fan Blaine Yanabu said, adding, “For the most part it wasn’t as exciting because N.H.L. players weren’t there.”
Yanabu admitted he was unaware that the Olympic gold medal game was taking place around the same time the Kings were to play the Oilers, or even which two countries were playing for the gold.
He was, however, still buzzing about the women’s Olympic ice hockey final on Wednesday, in which the United States captured its first gold medal in the event since 1998 with a shootout victory over archrival Canada.
NBC announced that 2.9 million viewers had watched that showdown, making it the most-watched late-night program in the history of NBC Sports Network. The figure was a marked decrease from the 4.9 million viewers who watched the same matchup in the 2014 gold medal game at the 2014 Sochi Games, which was broadcast on NBC — though the 2014 final began at noon Eastern time, while this year’s gold medal game began at 11 p.m.
Viewership for this year’s Olympic men’s tournament saw a similar decline. The United States men’s eight-round shootout victory over Russia in the 2014 Sochi Games established a record at the time for a hockey game on NBCSN, with 4.1 million viewers. But a 5-1 United States victory over Slovakia this year drew only a third of that number, a sign that rosters without N.H.L. stars and late-night broadcast times were the most obvious things keeping N.H.L. players and coaches — and others — from tuning in.
“I miss having the NHL players there but I don’t know that it needs it,” said David Profumo, a Kings fan who attended Saturday’s game in an Adam Deadmarsh Team U.S.A. jersey. “On the men’s side, it’s more even now, instead of Canada having all their big players out there. I mean, hockey is hockey.”
Deprived of an opportunity to watch Germany’s gold medal matchup against Russia from start to finish, Rieder said he hoped he would have a chance to at least discuss the game with Draisaitl before the Oilers left the arena. And maybe chat about what might have been in Pyeongchang.
“It’s pretty funny,” Rieder said. “We could be there playing in the finals with Germany, but we’ve got to play against each other.”


Advertisement
Advertisement
Supported by
By Curtis Rush
TORONTO — The troubling incident rocketed around the hockey world: Givani Smith, a black player in a top junior league, needed a police escort to a recent playoff game after online threats and racist taunts from fans.
Smith, 20, a forward with the Kitchener Rangers and a Detroit Red Wings prospect, is one of only about a dozen black players among the roughly 500 players in the Ontario Hockey League, one of three major junior hockey leagues in Canada for players ages 16 to 20 who often go on to N.H.L. careers.
For decades, black hockey players at all levels have experienced incidents of racial abuse. “A lot of players of color go through this,” Smith’s agent, G. P. Daniele, lamented. “It’s almost par for the course. It’s unfortunate.”
But the level of abuse directed at Smith so concerned the O.H.L. commissioner, David Branch, that he requested the police escort, a move he had not felt obligated to take before.
And in the aftermath, some members of the hockey community are calling for more to be done about racial harassment.
“I’ve lived in his shoes before,” said Kevin Weekes, 43, a black former N.H.L. goaltender and now a lead analyst at NHL Network who played in the O.H.L. in the 1990s. “It’s uncomfortable. It’s confusing.”
Smith received threats after he made an obscene gesture toward the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds’ bench after the Rangers’ overtime win in Game 6 of the Western Conference finals on April 29.
“There were definitely physical threats,” Rangers General Manager Mike McKenzie said. “I saw some of the stuff that was being sent in, and it was threatening in nature, and you could perceive it as death threats if you wanted to, and obviously the racial stuff as well.”
He added that no players or coaches were involved in the abuse. Branch ordered a police escort for Smith for Game 7 in Sault Ste. Marie after consulting with McKenzie and Greyhounds General Manager Kyle Raftis.
The threats were first reported Saturday by The Waterloo Region Record, which also said Smith had been subject to racist and derogatory comments during the series and earlier in the playoffs.
McKenzie said Monday that there had been “a few incidents throughout the year” of Smith receiving racist comments.
The O.H.L. suspended Smith for two games for the obscene gesture. He had to watch Game 7 on April 30 from the press box.
Two police officers met Smith in the lobby of his hotel. They drove him in a squad car to the game, even though it is about a five-minute walk.
“We didn’t want him walking to the rink on his own,” McKenzie said. “Once inside the rink, he was in our care in the dressing room area.
“There was security with him at all times. It may seem overboard, but there were physical threats. We wanted to make sure he was in a safe environment.”
The Rangers lost the game, ending their season and Smith’s junior hockey career.
Daniele said Smith, who is from Toronto, did not want to talk publicly about the situation in order to concentrate on his off-ice conditioning.
“His goal is to play in the N.H.L.,” he said.
Daniele has known his client since Smith was 11.
“It’s something he’s had to live with as part of being a black athlete,” said Daniele, who also represents Smith’s brother, Gemel, a Dallas Stars forward. “The Smiths are a quiet, reserved family. They would rather not deal with it and move on.”
Daniele released a statement on behalf of Smith’s family, saying: “At this time, Givani respectfully asks for privacy, as he and his family wish to move on from the incident. His focus is now on being a Detroit Red Wing.”
Smith was a second-round draft pick by Detroit in 2016. Acquired by Kitchener midway through this season, Smith was a key playoff performer, scoring 11 goals and contributing seven assists in 18 games.
“Obviously, it’s disgusting that people do that to another human being,” Red Wings General Manager Ken Holland said. “We support Givani. He’s a tremendous young man. We think he’s a really good prospect for us. He had a tremendous playoff. It’s about what you do on the ice. He’s a committed athlete, and we’re thrilled to have him in our organization. We’ve talked to him since the incident and made sure he understands we’re there to support him.”
Shawn Horcoff, the Red Wings’ director of player development, had contacted Smith after his obscene gesture to talk to him about controlling his emotions better on the ice. When Horcoff learned a couple of days later about the threats and the racial slurs that Smith had been subjected to, Horcoff called him again.
He said he told Smith he wished he had known more about what he was dealing with. Horcoff said Smith told him: “Listen, I didn’t want to make it a bigger deal than it was. I didn’t want more distractions for my teammates.”
Branch said this was the first time since he became commissioner in 1979 that a player needed a police escort to a game.
Racial slurs from player to player have occurred in the past, but those incidents are few in number, Branch said, though the league doesn’t keep track.
“Have there been indiscretions among players? Yes,” he said.
In 2003, John Vanbiesbrouck stepped down as coach and general manager of the Greyhounds after using a racial slur to describe the team captain Trevor Daley, who is black.
The next season, the league implemented a diversity program to try to eliminate all forms of harassment and abuse. A player who utters a racial slur against another player can be subject to a minimum five-game suspension.
But the O.H.L. does not “legislate fans,” Branch said, also noting that the league and teams cannot control fan behavior on social media.
Fan incidents involving black players have also been a problem in the N.H.L. During a preseason game in London, Ontario, in 2011, a fan threw a banana toward Flyers forward Wayne Simmonds. The following season, after scoring an overtime goal that eliminated the Boston Bruins from the playoffs, Joel Ward, then of the Washington Capitals, received a flurry of racist messages on Twitter. In February, a group of fans at United Center in Chicago were ejected for yelling racially-charged taunts at Devante Smith-Pelly of the Capitals during a game against the Blackhawks.
Weekes said the hockey community needed to “hold people to task” and fans had to hold themselves to account.
He would like to see a joint effort by the various leagues and law enforcement to root out racially-charged fan behavior. He also wants longer player suspensions for racial abuse and lifetime bans for fans who make threats to players.
McKenzie said the incident involving Smith opened his eyes to what some players have to go through to play hockey.
“Hopefully, we don’t have to see this again,” he said, “but I think everyone needs to take a step back and realize it’s a sport and a game and there are people under those helmets and gear and that we need to try to treat each other with a bit more respect and care.”


Advertisement