AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew KehCOPENHAGEN — The squats and leg lifts were harder than they looked, and after a few sets, Alfonso Aguirre Rodriguez placed his hands on his knees and attempted to compose himself.In November, Aguirre, a 24-year-old professional video game player from Spain, joined the five-man roster of Origen, a League of Legends team that competes in the game’s top European league. The players — all signed in late fall — were told at the time that the team might be run a bit differently from what they were accustomed to. Now here they were, five young men who make their living sitting almost completely still in front of desktop computers, sweating through an hourlong workout in a cramped gym.“I think I’m going to puke my oatmeal,” said Aguirre, who is known in the gaming community as Mithy. “I’m dying.”Some years ago, traditional sports leagues were revolutionized by young analysts wielding computers. The way things had always been done, it turned out, was not always the best way to do things. Now echoes of that transformation have arrived in the growing world of professional e-sports, where gamers are being shepherded toward a new frontier, oddly, by the old, corporeal wisdom of traditional sports.The debate about whether competitive gamers can be considered athletes may never end. In the meantime, though, gamers are increasingly acting like them.Origen is one of two teams owned by Rfrsh Entertainment, an e-sports company based in Copenhagen. Two years ago, the organization hired Kasper Hvidt, a former captain of Denmark’s national handball team, to be its sporting director. Hvidt, 43, had no previous exposure to gaming. But that was the point.E-sports in recent years have crept into the mainstream, attracting new fans, new sponsors and new investment. The top professionals now make six-figure salaries and earn even more with endorsements and prize money. And yet, Hvidt observed, their approach to performance remained amateurish.Eating right, sleeping right, exercising, cleaning up for sponsors — these ideas have undergirded traditional sports for generations. In e-sports, they are regarded as almost radical.“They don’t look at themselves as physical human beings,” said Hvidt, who won the European handball championship with Denmark in 2008.“It’s common sense, in a way. But with them it was not.”Rfrsh has a validating narrative under its belt. The company’s other team, Astralis, which competes internationally in the first-person shooter game Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, had gone almost a year without winning a tournament when Hvidt joined the organization in mid-2017. In 2018, the team earned $3.7 million in prize money while putting together one of the most dominant years ever by any team in any e-sports game.And so Origen this year has set off on the same journey of athletic self-improvement. As recently as last year, the players’ typical day might have been a sedentary extravaganza of sugary energy drinks, fast food and unresolved psychic tension. Now, their days are interposed with protein smoothies, yoga mats and slow-paced breathing exercises.The effects of those changes, the team said, have been plain to see: After starting the current season with a 1-4 record, Origen went on a tear, winning 11 of its final 13 matches, finishing the regular season in second place and securing a first-round bye for the playoffs, which began Friday.“These are little things,” Fabian Broich, Origen’s assistant coach, said. “But they add up, and over the long term you have a more emotionally stable team and a more focused team.”At Rfrsh, Hvidt has assembled a performance team — a physical trainer, a sports psychologist, a massage therapist, a medical doctor and a nutritionist — and constructed a lifestyle plan for the players that combines scientific research, old-school sports wisdom and simple common sense. Broich, 28, a former professional soccer player from Germany, acts as a liaison between the management team and the players, implementing the principles on the ground.The players, who hail from five European countries and range in age from 18 to 24, live in Denmark and fly each weekend to Berlin, where the League of Legends matches are taped in front of a boisterous studio audience. In Copenhagen, they are required to get around by bicycle (a rule they all hated at first) and have fitness and yoga classes during the week. On Mondays, they meet with the team psychologist for an “empty-the-backpack” session.Every morning, the team meets for breakfast in Broich’s apartment, a ritual designed in part to get the gamers — night owls and notoriously late risers — out of bed at a reasonable hour. Their other meals are catered with guidance from the nutritionist.“Before, I would go to sleep at 5 a.m. and wake up at 2 p.m. the next day, eat McDonald’s two times, and that’d be it,” Patrik Jiru, 18, an Origen player from the Czech Republic, said as he ate a salmon and vegetable omelet one recent morning.After breakfast, the players biked to the gym for a core workout and a physical therapy session.“Last time we did this, my body was sore for three days,” Jonas Andersen, 24, an Origen player from Denmark known as Kold, said as he grabbed a medicine ball.Mikkel Hjuler, a trainer who works with Danish Olympians, guided the team through some gaming-specific exercises. He had the players wrap their fists inside elastic bands and flex their fingers. He taught them a neck exercise favored by boxers.The players were willing participants, but they admitted that their ambitions, from a physical standpoint, were modest.“I’m O.K. with being chubby as long as I don’t pass out when I’m running — which, right now, I might,” Aguirre said.The players continue to train several hours a day in front of computers, but even those sessions now borrow elements from traditional sports.Before a recent scrimmage session at the Rfrsh headquarters, Broich distributed magnesium pills and protein bars. (He keeps vitamin D and krill oil in his arsenal, too.) Later, he blended a potpourri of nutritional supplements — moringa, matcha, maca, chlorella, açaí and a half-dozen others — into a thick protein shake.In their meeting room, a quotation attributed to the N.B.A. coach Phil Jackson — “The strength of the team is each individual member” — was scribbled on a dry-erase board. After one practice game, the team laid out yoga mats and stretched on foam rollers.Trevor Henry, 31, a broadcast commentator for Riot Games, the company behind League of Legends, marveled at how quickly the game’s competitive landscape was professionalizing. He was happy, for instance, that some teams were reconsidering their use of gaming houses, a classic e-sports setup in which players live and train together under one roof.“Go back just a few years: Professional players would play 10 to 11 hours every day and do takeout food every day,” Henry said. “Pizza boxes would stack up rooms. Laundry would never get done. I’ll be brutally honest: Teams didn’t wash the team shirts. They’d have the same team shirt that they’d wear 24 weeks in a year that has never seen detergent.”This lifestyle — part monk, part fraternity brother — was not only accepted but also held up as the very reason the players were successful. But that wisdom is now being challenged, and in Europe the shift by League of Legends this year to a 10-team, franchise model (akin to American sports leagues) has encouraged organizations to make more long-term investments.Last year, Fabien Devide, the chairman of Team Vitality, a French gaming organization, spent seven months embedded in his League of Legends team’s gaming house in Berlin. He was startled by what he saw.“It was a madhouse,” Devide said, describing an atmosphere with an utter lack of boundaries between personal and professional life. “It can become a toxic environment very quick.”Devide said Team Vitality planned to move its players into separate apartments later this year. Acknowledging the pioneering example of Rfrsh, he said he was formalizing plans to open a training center for his organization in Paris and hire a performance director, in the mold of Hvidt, to devise a program grounded in traditional sports ideas.Teams now understand that championships are won and lost in the details. When Origen was assembling its squad last year, Hvidt asked potential signees to complete a personality test with hundreds of questions to make sure it was building an emotionally compatible group.In December, the players convened for a preseason camp with one catch: no computers. Instead, the players spent several days completing trust exercises and discussing their dreams with Lars Robl, a sports psychologist who spent two decades in the Danish special forces — “the real Counter Strike,” he joked — and whose other clients include the Danish soccer club F.C. Midtjylland.Robl’s job now is to help the gamers see themselves as elite athletes, just like the soccer players.“They have the same DNA,” Robl said. “They’re just not aware of it yet.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Arielle DollingerBehind a glass partition at the Microsoft store at the Roosevelt Field Mall on Long Island, 10 teenage boys settled into seats in a rectangular formation. Each sat behind a laptop computer, ears warmed by a bulky headset.Parents and grandparents circled the room, peering over shoulders at screens. One mother used her iPhone to live-stream to social media.The room had the feel of a sporting event, and it was — a group of competitive video gamers on the Bay Shore High School e-sports team were competing in a scrimmage and playing their way toward college scholarships.Multiplayer video games played competitively, often with spectators, are known as e-sports, and they have became a gateway to college scholarship money. Over the past two years, the National Association of Collegiate Esports, which is engaged with 98 varsity programs across the United States and Canada, has helped to facilitate $16 million in scholarships, according to the executive director, Michael Brooks.In higher education, e-sports live in various departments. Sometimes they are part of student affairs; some schools place them within an engineering or design program; and, more rarely, they have their place in athletics.At Robert Morris University Illinois, e-sports is part of the athletics department. Team members have access to athletic trainers and are put through light fitness training. Players attend practice Monday through Thursday, from 4:30 to 9 p.m., with an hour break for dinner. They analyze film, participate in team-building activities, sit for communication sessions.“The games that are competitively viable in the collegiate sphere have real depth, have deep levels of strategy, and require strategic teamwork and require real mastery to be successful — and not just by yourself, within a team environment and through using tactics,” said Kurt Melcher, who runs the program at Robert Morris.A few years out of college, Mr. Melcher was the soccer coach and associate athletic director for Robert Morris By 2013, he noticed a college community emerging. Students were organizing themselves, creating their own opportunities for gaming. So he took a proposal to the university administration: What if game play were an athletic endeavor?“If you look at sports, how do you define what is more of a sport? Is football more of a sport than men’s tennis or women’s tennis, and is golf more or less of a sport than hockey?” he said.Today, almost 90 Robert Morris students play, and about 80 of them receive e-sports scholarships, Mr. Melcher said. Varsity-level players can receive scholarships that cover up to 70 percent of their tuition; reserve players receive 35 percent tuition coverage.At the University of California Irvine, where e-sports fall under student affairs, gamers must try out for a team and scholarship offers come later. There are 23 students on e-sports scholarships at U.C.I. this year, on varsity and junior varsity teams, said Mark Deppe, who runs the university’s e-sports program.E-sports players at U.C.I. devote 15 to 20 hours a week to the sport, Mr. Deppe said. Players scrimmage other teams, watch Video on Demand footage to evaluate performance, participate in team meetings, sit for biweekly sessions with a team psychologist and work out once a week with a personal trainer. The physical workout is e-sports-inspired: aside from general cardio, routines emphasize strengthening core muscles, arms, shoulders and wrists.“There’s discipline involved, there’s practice involved, there’s teamwork and collaboration involved, but also the physical aspect,” said Mark Candella, known as Garvey, the director of strategic partnerships for the streaming platform Twitch. “These young people can do up to 360 controlled precise actions per minute. Their fingers and hands and their eyes move so quickly in exact coordination.”Organized competitive gaming on both the high school and university levels lives in purposeful defiance of the gamer stereotype: as Mr. Melcher said, “a kid locked in a basement, antisocial, angry, drinks 50 Mountain Dews and doesn’t sort of become a valuable person in society.” In the educational sphere, game play often brings students out of basements and bedrooms.At Bay Shore High School, Ryan Champlin, a senior, started the team with the help of his father, Chris; younger brother, Kyle; and computer teacher, Mike Masino. The team is part of the school’s computer club.The team plays through the High School Esports League, a body that organizes competitive games and serves as a recruiting pipeline for college e-sports programs. The league has dozens of recruiters looking for scholarship candidates, said Mason Mullenioux, the organization’s chief executive.Unlike traditional sports, e-sports recruitment is complicated by the nature of online gaming. Players are identified on leader boards only by user names. Details like age, gender and location are not listed. “You don’t know if they’re 12 years old or 30 years old,” said Mr. Deppe of the University of California. “People have to kind of reveal themselves to schools and groups.”Many players create online profiles through universities or organizations like the high school league so that schools might find those students who both meet academic requirements and play the desired positions on their high school teams.“The last thing you want to do is you spend a lot of time talking to a person in game, only to realize that they’re a 50-year-old doctor in Cambodia,” Mr. Brooks said.Generally, recruiters look for high school juniors and seniors, Mr. Brooks said. The industry is in its infancy and changes quickly — by the time middle school students are ready for college, the games they are playing might not even exist.Meanwhile, some schools offer e-sports scholarships not associated with teams or specific games. New York University awards an e-sports scholarship to one student per year who is active in the gaming community and interested in working in some part of the gaming industry. The Evo Scholarship is funded by subscriptions to the Evo tournament livestream and by the fighting game champion Daigo Umehara.As Bay Shore players with usernames like Wobblyturtle, Oddgecko, REC, Grassyabyss3 and Glass competed at the mall, Ryan Champlin watched and supervised. He has already received a scholarship offer from Menlo College in California.The Silicon Valley school is offering “almost a full ride,” Ryan said, in the form of an athletics scholarship for e-sports and a leadership scholarship that would make him assistant director of the e-sports program.“The same scholarship if I was playing football or lacrosse,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiA gunman opened fire on Sunday at a video game tournament in Florida, killing two people, wounding numerous others and killing himself.The shooting, the start of which was streamed online, thrust a young, growing and often little understood industry, known as e-sports, into the national spotlight.Here’s more about e-sports and how they’ve become so popular.E-sports refers to the rapidly expanding world of competitive video games, encompassing a range of games and plots, played on a variety of platforms.Competitions are often hosted in large venues, such as arenas, where audiences watch as professional players vie for supremacy. The players and the tournaments can be sponsored by major corporations, and the battles are often streamed live online with commentary.Thanks to a confluence of factors, e-sports have exploded in popularity in recent years, with the total global audience expected to reach 380 million by the end of 2018, according to Newzoo, an Amsterdam-based research firm.“It’s grown through a combination of expanded broadband, social networks, interesting games and personalities, more involvement from the publishers and also, increasingly, from sports and entertainment,” said Christopher Vollmer, global advisory leader for entertainment and media at PwC, the accounting firm formerly known as PricewaterhouseCoopers.Online personalities have played a significant role in that expansion. In the United States and Britain, fans were about as likely to have been drawn to e-sports by online stars, such as those on YouTube, as they were by family and friends, according to a 2017 Nielsen report.PwC expects the e-sports market to grow drastically, estimating that revenues will rise to $1.6 billion in 2020 from $620 million in 2017. Research firms dedicated to the e-sports market say the current figure is even larger, with one estimating the industry will generate about $900 million in 2018.As the industry has grown, it has increasingly mirrored the legacy sports market, featuring slickly produced tournaments, high-value ticket sales, major corporate sponsors and extensive advertising.This year, the N.B.A. got involved in a significant way, creating a video game league with the large game developer Take-Two Interactive. The games are streamed to hundreds of thousands of fans on Twitch, the hugely popular streaming service bought by Amazon in 2014 for $1.1 billion.The e-sports audience is disproportionately young and male, Mr. Vollmer said, but that may change as e-sports gain popularity. As the audience diversifies, advertising and sponsorship opportunities will most likely grow, he said.Some of the most popular e-sports games include: League of Legends, a fantasy-inspired multiplayer battle game; Call of Duty, a series of military first-person shooting games; and Overwatch, a futuristic first-person shooter.Activision Blizzard, the publisher of Call of Duty and Overwatch, has a market capitalization of $54 billion. In 2016, the company acquired Major League Gaming, an organizer of e-sports competitions.“I have a simple vision for this,” Robert A. Kotick, the chief executive of Activision Blizzard, told The New York Times when the acquisition was made. “I want to build the ESPN of video games.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alan Blinder, Patricia Mazzei and Kevin DraperJACKSONVILLE, Fla. — The off-season had just ended. The competitors, the finest players of a football video game, had gathered on the riverfront in Jacksonville for two days of animated battle. The weekend’s tournament was their first sanctioned chance to show which game-winning moves of the “Madden” franchise they had unlocked.Pride and cash prizes were their goals.Then came the gunfire. Two players were killed. Another 11 people were injured, 10 by bullets. And the gunman, a 24-year-old player from Baltimore, was dead.The fatal rampage on Sunday was yet another mass shooting in a state already familiar with the grim customs that come with bursts of gunfire. But the attack has also cast a light on the rites and rigors of competitive e-sports, a close-knit, screen-named world of streaming and sponsorships, supersized rewards and swollen egos.“The suspect clearly targeted other gamers,” Sheriff Mike Williams of Jacksonville said of the gunman, identified as David B. Katz. He had been defeated in the tournament earlier in the day, then later pulled out a handgun. “The suspect walked past patrons who were in other parts of the business and focused his attention on the gamers,” the sheriff said.In an era when many video games are criticized for gratuitous carnage, the Madden franchise, named for the celebrated football coach and commentator John Madden, has been among the sports games that stood apart. The most competitive players are often former athletes themselves and have elevated a game that has been a hugely popular form of entertainment in college dorms and bars across the country.“The Madden player is a different type of guy: You’re half a jock and half a gamer,” said Chris McFarland, a 31-year-old player from Philadelphia who competed in Jacksonville over the weekend. “That’s kind of in between two different demographics as far as the male human is concerned. You’re either a jock playing sports or you’re a gamer in the house playing games. It’s kind of hard to balance out both of them, but that’s essentially what a Madden player is, and when you get to this level, you’ve got to put a lot of time and energy into it.”Mr. McFarland was among the players who came to Jacksonville for the start of a monthslong circuit scheduled to stretch from Washington’s suburbs to Orange County, Calif. On Monday afternoon, he sat in a wheelchair at Memorial Hospital in Jacksonville, recovering from a grazing bullet wound to the head.“You hear the first pop, and you don’t know what exactly — you would never think it’s a gunshot,” he said. “That’s when a bullet grazed my head, and that’s when I fell to the ground and looked back and I saw the guy. I’ll never forget the image of him just holding a gun, just unloading on a group of my friends, man.”Authorities identified the two men killed as 22-year-old Elijah Clayton, a former high school football player from Woodland Hills, Calif., known online as “Trueboy,” and Taylor Robertson, 28, of Giles, W.Va., known as “SpotMePlzzz.”Mr. Katz was the third fatality, killed by a self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was armed with two legally purchased weapons but used only one handgun, the police said.The attack on Sunday was unlike any other episode in the evolving and rising world of e-sports, an industry projected to generate close to $1 billion in revenue this year, according to the market research firm Newzoo. The Madden franchise, in which players use their game controllers to call plays and direct running backs, is among the nation’s most popular video games, but it has not been the epicenter of the e-sports universe.Recently, that honor has belonged to Overwatch, a team-based first-person shooter game developed by Blizzard Entertainment. Franchise fees for some teams in the Overwatch League were reportedly as high as $20 million.Still, this weekend’s tournament in Jacksonville was an important one on the Madden circuit, a regional qualifier for a major event and a chance for top players to debut their newfound mastery of a game whose most recent iteration was released just weeks ago.Some of the players are full-time competitors and personalities, drawing huge audiences while seeking vindication, pleasure and no small amount of money. For sports fans, the games can offer a certain solace when their own favorite teams prove frustrating.“I’m a huge Eagles fan, so when you watch the Eagles, you get mad: Don’t punt. Pass the ball. Run the ball,” Mr. McFarland said. “But when you’re a Madden player, you have all that control. That’s what originally draws you to Madden, and I remember playing my friends and losing to them. That made me want to be better than them — and it grew and grew and grew to the point that you become one of the best players in the world.”Mr. McFarland said that in recent years, he has averaged about $75,000 a year from playing Madden, and thanks to the game, he was at this year’s Super Bowl in Minneapolis when the Eagles won their real-life title. He traveled regularly on the circuit, sometimes sharing an Airbnb with fellow players — an Xbox, of course, promptly connected for practice games.Such was the backdrop over the weekend as players convened in and around the Jacksonville Landing, a sprawling riverfront development in the downtown of Florida’s most populous city. The complex features the GLHF Game Bar, a popular hangout that borrows its name from a common greeting in gaming: “Good luck, have fun.”Shay Kivlen, a Madden gamer known as “Young Kiv,” had come up short not long before the shooting began on Sunday, retreating to a hotel room 15 minutes after being eliminated from the tournament. He switched on a live stream to watch Mr. Clayton, his best friend, in action. At some point, a red dot appeared on Mr. Clayton’s shirt — it later would prove to be a laser sight — and then Mr. Kivlen heard gunshots.He began a series of panicked calls. One friend, he recalled on Monday, finally answered the phone. He was hiding in a bathroom at the Jacksonville Landing with about 30 other people.“He was crying,” Mr. Kivlen said. “He told me he thought Trueboy — Elijah — was dead. I couldn’t believe it. I was like, ‘Are you sure? Are you sure?’”Theirs was a friendship forged like many others in the realms of Madden and e-sports. They met online about five years ago, when Mr. Kivlen was a junior in high school who had hurt his arm playing baseball and was seeking a new pastime. Although Mr. Clayton lived in California and Mr. Kivlen in Seattle, they eventually met in person and became the kind of friends who texted each other on a daily basis, often for hours.“That was one of my best friends in life — not just Madden,” said Mr. Kivlen, a prolific player who estimated he had won about $140,000 last year. “He was one of the nicest, most genuine, most real, hard-working individuals I’ve ever met. If he was happy, you knew he was happy — like, there was no faking it.”Mr. Robertson, the other player killed, was regarded as one of the kindest in the hypercompetitive Madden sphere. Because of poor internet service in his part of West Virginia, Mr. Robertson did not have the online presence of some of his rivals, Mr. McFarland said, but showed up for tournaments “always with a smile, never anything bad to say about anybody.”Although it is a community that thrives on a masculine vibe and the high energy of football, players describe Madden participants as competitive but friendly. Damon Kirk, a player from Detroit, said one competitor who recently married had drawn a majority of his groomsmen from his Madden crew, which is made up of players who attend tournaments together and play each other often.Mr. Kirk said he had seen arguments break out at tournaments, but never fights, adding, “There’s always been handshakes and high-fives after the games.”But Mr. Katz was never part of the congenial groups that socialized after the events.He was one of eight finalists in the Madden 17 Club Series tournament in Burbank, Calif., last year, representing the Buffalo Bills after completing a long-shot, 82-yard touchdown pass as time expired during a tournament in Buffalo. A preview on the EA Sports website — since deleted, but available in a cached version — called his last-minute victory “the most exciting moment in all the 2017 NFL Club Series Championships.”After Mr. Katz’s win in Buffalo, the Twitter account for the Bills posted an image of Mr. Katz posing with Cyrus Kouandjio, a former Bills player; he appeared expressionless. He was interviewed after the win just as a quarterback on the field would be, discussing his gameplay strategy with Steve Tasker, a former Bills player and current announcer.Mr. Katz lost in the quarterfinals of the tournament in Burbank, which had a $50,000 prize pool. Mr. Clayton was one of the other competitors in the quarterfinals, though Mr. Katz and Mr. Clayton did not compete against each other, according to a bracket on the EA Sports website.Dennis Alston, a competitor at Sunday’s event in Jacksonville, told a television station in Jacksonville that he and one other player had defeated Mr. Katz in this weekend’s tournament and that neither had been shot. After beating Mr. Katz, Mr. Alston said, he went to shake his hand.“He just looked at me,” Mr. Alston said. “He didn’t say anything.”“He never tried to be social with anyone,” Mr. Kivlen said, adding that Mr. Katz appeared to wear the same outfit on Saturday and Sunday, along with a hat and sunglasses. Mr. Katz went by the moniker “Bread.”“He’s not here to make friends. He’s all business,” said the announcer in  a 2017 tournament in which Mr. Katz participated. “He’s focused. And to even get him to open up to talk to you about anything, it’s like pulling teeth.”Mr. Katz had been hospitalized in psychiatric facilities twice as an adolescent, according to records in his parents’ divorce case reviewed by The Associated Press.He played video games obsessively as a youth, sometimes refusing to go to school or bathe, his mother, Elizabeth Katz, told the court. She said she sometimes had to take away his gaming equipment. “His hair would very often go unwashed for days. When I took his gaming equipment controllers away so he couldn’t play at 3 or 4 in the morning, I’d get up and find that he was just walking around the house in circles,” she said, according to a transcript included in the case file.In a statement on Monday, Andrew Wilson, the chief executive of Madden’s developer, said the company had canceled remaining qualifier events “while we run a comprehensive review of safety protocols for competitors and spectators.”At Memorial Hospital, hours before both his discharge and Mr. Wilson’s announcement, Mr. McFarland was not sure when he would play again.“This is the darkest thing that’s ever happened to Madden, obviously,” he said. “I stream full-time pretty much, so when do I start to stream again? I don’t know what to do.”Alan Blinder reported from Jacksonville, Patricia Mazzei from Miami, and Kevin Draper from New York. Jason Bailey and Melissa Gomez contributed reporting from New York, and Daniel Victor from Hong Kong. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesHONG KONG — As fighting raged across the battlefield in a video game called Arena of Valor, the announcers could barely contain their enthusiasm.“That is going to be two kills for team Thailand!” said Caro Wang, an announcer who was calling a video game competition this week at the Asian Games in Indonesia. “Make that three, actually.”“Chinese Taipei counter-engaging!” added her fellow announcer, Jeff Chau, after a virtual character in a red cape shot an opponent with a bazooka-like gun. “Getting the kill, getting the snare.”Competitive video gaming is an exhibition sport this week at the Asian Games — perhaps the largest international exposure yet for an e-sports industry that is said to be worth nearly $1 billion. “E-sports” are scheduled to be upgraded to the status of a medal event at the next Asian Games, in 2022, and the International Olympic Committee has said it will consider eventually adding them to the Olympics.But the timing of the event — the same week that a gamer with a real weapon shot and killed two people and himself at a video game tournament in Florida — is awkward because many games played by “e-athletes” revolve around violence.“I think it is inevitable” that e-sports will become Olympic events because of their soaring popularity, said Samart Benjamin Assarasakorn, the executive secretary to the president of the Thailand E-Sports Federation. But he added that violence in games was an issue that needed to be “worked out.”The term “e-sports” refers to video games that are played across a variety of digital platforms in competitive settings, including stadiums. Global revenues for the industry were expected to reach $906 million this year, up more than 38 percent over 2017, according to a report by Newzoo, an Amsterdam-based research firm. The report said China accounted for $164 million of the total, and North America for $345 million.The 135 e-sports players at this week’s Asian Games represent 18 countries and were drawn from a 27-nation qualifying pool, according to the Asian Electronic Sports Federation, a co-organizer of the demonstration matches. Ms. Wang, the announcer, said the players were a mix of amateurs and professionals, some of whom have handsome corporate sponsorships.“I’ve been longing to wear China’s national flag on the world stage since the first time I played Honor of Kings three years ago,” Zhang Yucheng, a professional who played for China this week, was quoted as saying in The Beijing News on Tuesday. He was referring to the Chinese video game that Arena of Valor was adapted from.The matches, in six separate video games, were being followed online by fans across the region. Two days after the Chinese national team defeated Taiwan in the Arena of Valor finals, for example, the trending topic “#e-sports asian game” had more than 710 million clicks on Sina Weibo, a Twitter-like social media platform.“I’ve always believed that those who can be Olympic champions not only have better physical bodies, but also smart brains,” one Weibo user wrote.Alan Hellawell, the group chief strategy officer for Sea, the Singapore-based parent company of a firm that publishes Arena of Valor in Taiwan and Southeast Asia, said the Asian Games matches were “another form of legitimacy” for e-sports in a part of the world where they are booming.“E-sports is in many ways an everyman’s or everywoman’s game,” Mr. Hellawell said. “The only barrier to entry is being able to find a device, and it doesn’t even need to be your own.”The International Olympic Committee helped organize a forum on e-sports in July in Switzerland. Among other questions, the committee reported, the forum explored “the question of whether e-sports could be recognized as a sport,” as well as how they “could align with the Olympic values, rules and regulations.”Despite the genre’s growing profile, even top players remain dogged by skepticism over whether they are real athletes.Mr. Assarasakorn of the Thai e-sports federation said a common problem is that casual video gamers are confused with “e-athletes,” some of whom have training regimens that include running and muscle-strengthening exercises. He added that physical training was linked with success in e-sports, and that playing video games had a physical dimension.“Even typing what I’m saying now, you’re engaging your core muscles,” he told this reporter.But the prevalence of violence in e-sports competitions may be a steeper obstacle to overcome.Thomas Bach, the president of the International Olympic Committee, said in April that “killer games” or ones that promote “violence or any kind of discrimination” would never be suitable for Olympic competition. “They would be contrary to our values and our principles,” he said.It was unclear whether the six video games being played at the Asian Games would meet Mr. Bach’s definition of nonviolence. (The official description of Arena of Valor says the basic objectives include “killing enemies” and “destroying towers and the enemy base.”) The I.O.C. did not respond to emailed questions.On Wednesday, Kenneth Fok, the chief of the Asian Electronic Sports Federation, a governing body, told reporters that while Sunday’s shooting in Jacksonville, Fla., was a tragedy, e-sports and video games were not to blame.“I think it is a bigger issue of gun control and also the access to guns,” Mr. Fok said.In interviews this week, people in the industry offered different views on whether it was feasible — or desirable — for e-sports to shed their violent ways in a bid to shine up for a possible Olympic appearance.Some, like Huang Cheng Hui, a professional player from China who competes under the nom de guerre Lciop, said certain games could be toned down to make them Olympic-friendly without dampening their competitive spirit.“There are still a lot of games that aren’t so violent,” Mr. Huang, 23, the silver medalist this week in a video game called Clash Royale, added. (E-sports medals are not being counted toward the overall tally at the Asian Games.)But Ms. Wang, the Arena of Valor announcer, said that choosing less-violent games for an Olympic event would be a “disservice” to ones that feature shooting, in part because their violence is often rendered in cartoonish ways.“They’re great e-sports to watch,” she said. “They require immense amounts of skill to make it to the top.”Zoe Mou and Claire Fu contributed research from Beijing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jason M. BaileyJay Goldthwaite had never felt passion for a Boston sports team, no matter how often his neighbors’ cheers pierced the walls of his condo during playoff games for the Red Sox or the Celtics.But then came the Boston Uprising, a franchise in the Overwatch League whose players shoot it out in a video game to save the world.Now an autographed team poster is framed on a wall in his home office. During an emergency room visit this year, he used his phone to furtively watch the Uprising in a frenzied match featuring a time-traveling pistoleer, an electricity-wielding scientist and a monk pursuing transcendence.“I thought it would be sort of a novelty,” Mr. Goldthwaite, 47, said of having a local team to support. “But now I find myself jumping off the couch.”Competitive e-sports emerged 20 years ago, when a game called StarCraft became an obsession in South Korea and a pillar for Blizzard Entertainment, which also publishes the game Overwatch. Devotion to teams like Evil Geniuses, Team Liquid and Cloud9 developed organically with little regard for geography.But Blizzard’s parent company, Activision Blizzard, which employs executives who have worked for the N.B.A., the N.F.L., and broadcasters ESPN and Fox Sports, is taking a more deliberate approach.“Basketball is not a sport,” said Pete Vlastelica, the chief executive of e-sports at Activision Blizzard. “Basketball is a game. The N.B.A. makes it a sport by wrapping structure and fanfare around it.”The Overwatch League’s inaugural season this year featured 12 teams, and the finals in July attracted sold-out crowds of more than 20,000 spectators to the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, while matches were broadcast on ESPN. Since then, Blizzard has announced expansion franchises in Atlanta, Washington, Paris, Toronto and Vancouver, British Columbia, as well as the Chinese cities of Guangzhou, Chengdu and Hangzhou. The league hopes to ultimately add eight more.By building local franchises for Overwatch, Blizzard offered a structure that could appeal to professional sports executives able to provide valuable cachet.The first two franchises, the Boston Uprising and the New York Excelsior, were bought by organizations connected to Robert K. Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots, and Jeff Wilpon, chief operating officer of the New York Mets and the son of the team’s principal owner. Executives with the Los Angeles Rams, the Philadelphia Flyers and the Sacramento Kings soon joined the ownership ranks. E-sports stalwarts joined, too: Cloud9 owns the London Spitfire, which won the first championship.Mr. Kraft’s son Jonathan, president of the Kraft Group, said his organization had been interested in e-sports, but was uncomfortable acquiring what amounted only to contracts with individual players, rather than a permanent franchise.It was swayed by the pitch for the Overwatch League, which like a professional sports league tracks detailed statistics on teams and players, has a regular broadcast schedule, a postseason, and player transactions. (This off-season, its runner-up for most valuable player was traded to another team.)“It’s not the wild, wild West anymore,” Jonathan Kraft said of the Overwatch League. “There’s a structure. There’s substance.”Overwatch fans might have an easy time coalescing around geographic allegiances, but they’ll have a hard time seeing their team in person. All of the teams, including New York, Boston and Philadelphia — not to mention Shanghai and Seoul — actually play just outside Los Angeles.Every regular-season match this year was played in a 450-seat e-sports arena in Burbank, Calif. That allows Blizzard to focus on its online broadcast while team owners can develop reliable technological infrastructure, said the league’s commissioner, Nate Nanzer. Teams could move to local arenas in the league’s third season, in 2020.“There is a huge audience that is out there dying to engage with this content live and connect with other fans,” Mr. Nanzer said.The local franchise model remains largely untested, however.Riot Games, which publishes League of Legends, the most popular e-sport, has not yet found a city-franchise system it likes, said Chris Hopper, the company’s head of e-sports for North America. It is closely evaluating its Chinese league, which this year assigned three of its Shanghai-based teams to Chengdu, Chongqing and Hangzhou.Mr. Hopper oversees a 10-team league based in Los Angeles, and said he believed there were diminishing returns when expanding to other cities.“We’ve sold out events because of the relative scarcity of presence in that market,” Mr. Hopper said. “So we can sell out Madison Square Garden or Staples Center or Air Canada Centre because we haven’t gone there in a long time.”In the new N.B.A. 2K League, players live in the cities of their team’s corresponding basketball franchise and travel to New York every weekend to compete. Because the N.B.A. already has city franchises, no other e-sports model was really considered, said Brendan Donohue, the league’s managing director.Game companies are trying to replicate the long-term audiences found in traditional sports, and regionalism and nationalism have been powerful anchors, said T. L. Taylor, a professor of comparative media studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has written books about e-sports and online gaming.“Now that e-sports can be seen as a viewable product with audiences that can be marketed and carved up, it’s being fit into modes of industry and entertainment that are resonant,” she said.Overwatch League is promising its teams something else that mirrors traditional sports: revenue sharing. Franchises will eventually split the money made from broadcast deals and national advertisers — which have included HP, Sour Patch Kids, T-Mobile and Toyota — in addition to keeping all local revenue, according to Blizzard. The players receive minimum $50,000 salaries, and were allocated at least half of the inaugural season’s $3.5 million prize pool.Blizzard, which also publishes long-running franchises like World of Warcraft and Diablo, believes it will be able to hold the interest of fans the same way it keeps players enthralled. It regularly introduces new characters, maps and game modes to Overwatch, as well as alluring outfits that are randomly distributed. The goal is an ecosystem that helps perpetuate the game, Mr. Vlastelica said.“We talk about it as a forever league,” he said.Market research groups said e-sports last year generated about $700 million in revenue and about 300 million unique viewers — the vast majority of them in a young demographic coveted by advertisers. And more people than ever are watching others play games online because of live-streaming services like Twitch, which is owned by Amazon.Overwatch players aim to control an area or to escort a vehicle through enemy fire using characters with varying powers: Pharah causes havoc from afar with rockets and a jet pack, Mei freezes opponents and builds ice walls, and Lucio, a rollerblading D.J., heals his teammates with music.The game play can be difficult for a casual observer to process, but the culture surrounding it is familiar. As in other sports, fans of the Overwatch League watch matches at bars while wearing jerseys of their favorite team.“Humans,” Mr. Nanzer said, “are tribal in nature.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe strange saga of a fake female gamer and her encounter with the misogynistic world of e-sports. By Megan CondisMs. Condis is an assistant professor of game studies and a gamer.Over the past few weeks, the gaming community has been consumed by a strange episode — one involving a game called Overwatch, a player named Ellie and a so-called social experiment gone wrong.For the unfamiliar, Overwatch is a first-person shooter video game in which teams of six players must work together to accomplish an objective while avoiding being killed by opposing teams. As of May 2018, there were approximately 40 million Overwatch players regularly battling it out worldwide, making the game one of the most popular out there.It is also a spectator sport, with serious money at stake; the Overwatch League is a professional e-sports organization akin to the N.B.A. and the N.F.L. that hands out millions of dollars in prize money and brings in millions of viewers. This league is, in turn, fed by the Overwatch Contenders, a series of tournaments designed to identify talented young players who could turn professional.It will surprise no one to learn that a vast majority of these players, professionals and amateurs alike, are male and that women who venture into these spaces face an especially unpleasant environment. Women who compete professionally in e-sports face heckling from teammates and fans, and are sometimes accused of serving as fronts for male players. At the same time, team owners with an eye toward reaching a potentially gigantic untapped market of young female viewers remain eager to diversify their rosters to provide an entry point for girls who might never have thought of video games as being “for them.”Into this toxic storm came Ellie.Ellie — no last name given — appeared at first to be a previously undiscovered, highly ranked female player who’d seemingly come out of nowhere to dominate the Overwatch leader boards. As such, she was a tempting recruit for the Contenders team Second Wind, which, according to a statement released this month, had found itself “desperately” in need of a new player to fill a hole in its roster.Ellie, however, proved reticent to reveal anything about her identity other than her online alias. Some fans argued that she did so with good reason: The e-sports world has an ugly history of haranguing female players to the breaking point. In 2015, for instance, Hyerim Lee, a professional competitor known as MagicAmy in another popular game, Hearthstone, was accused by a fellow player of being nothing more than a pretty face and a front for an anonymous man or team of players. These accusations led to an investigation; Ms. Lee was vindicated and her employer, the team Tempo Storm, offered to “support MagicAmy in an attempt to clear her name.” However, in the wake of the negative attention, Ms. Lee opted to retire from professional play instead.In 2016, another professional player — this time an Overwatch specialist — named Kim Se-yeon and known as Geguri, also faced charges of cheating from her male competitors, though in her case she was accused of simply hacking the game itself, not of having a man play for her. At least two players were so confident that she must have been pulling the wool over the community’s eyes that they staked their careers on it, promising not only to apologize but also to retire from the league if they were proved wrong. To their credit, they did so following a live-streamed event where she demonstrated her preternatural mouse skills for all to see.So there was reason enough for Ellie to want to keep her identity a secret, and Second Wind indicated it would respect Ellie’s desire for privacy. Others, however, remained suspicious and soon enough the cycle of harassment, abuse, threats and calls for doxxing began. (Doxxing is the online practice of publishing people’s personal, private information without their consent.) Not long after, Ellie announced that she would not be playing for Second Wind after all. It seemed as though yet another female e-sports athlete had been driven away from the scene.But this time, the story had a twist. Soon after her early retirement was announced, another highly accomplished but as yet undrafted Overwatch player calling himself Punisher confessed to a fellow player that he was, in fact, the man behind the Ellie persona and that the entire fiasco was intended to function as a kind of “social experiment.” In other words, it turned out that Ellie really had been lying about her identity all along.The strange story of Ellie underscores a few facets of e-sports that still make the industry unusual, even as it has expanded into a multimillion-dollar business. The first is the degree to which it allows for anonymity: Unlike players in traditional sports, e-sports athletes are not necessarily expected to be physically present at an event to compete, and the Overwatch Contenders rules do not require participants to use their legal names.The second is that e-sports pose no physical barriers to mixed-gender competition. It is a realm in which quick thinking, creative problem-solving and hand-eye coordination, not size or strength, are needed to succeed.Despite this — or perhaps because of it — fans and gamers have erected a series of informal psychological barriers against female participation. Some male players will go so far as to throw their games in protest against playing with women; indeed, one of the players on Ellie’s team, Second Wind’s team captain, Robert Blohm (HaKu), went as far as to say that “females should not be” in top-ranking games with him. (He later tweeted an apology.) These barriers and gatekeeping even extend to fandom: Female gamers with no professional aspirations are regularly accused by their male counterparts of being “fake geek girls” — which certainly isn’t helpful for an industry trying to expand its viewership.If Punisher was conducting a “social experiment,” it isn’t clear what he was trying to prove. Was it intended to demonstrate the trials and tribulations that female e-sports athletes must endure on their way to the top? If so, for many fans, the fact that no woman ever actually existed proved only that games media outlets were a little too quick to call the community sexist. Was it to demonstrate that women actually have an easier time than men when it comes to achieving success — because Punisher himself went unsigned, while “Ellie” was snapped up immediately? If so, it’s worth asking why Second Wind was willing to take such a humongous risk on an unknown quantity. What did it see as the potential benefits? What public relations problems did they think she might be able to help solve?Only one thing is certain: Punisher’s “social experiment” did not take place in a vacuum, and the memory of it will linger in the Overwatch community, for good or ill. In the aftermath of Ellie’s swift rise and fall, women trying to break into professional e-sports will probably face greater pressure than ever to prove their existence to male fans. That is not a good outcome, either for the women themselves or for an industry that needs them.Megan Condis is an assistant professor of game studies at Texas Tech University and the author of “Gaming Masculinity: Trolls, Fake Geeks, and the Gendered Battle for Online Culture.”AdvertisementTyler Blevins, the multimillionaire face of Fortnite, is aiming for LeBron James-level of fame. He probably lost 300 subscribers while talking to us.Tyler “Ninja” Blevins visited The New York Times offices on Tuesday.CreditCreditEarl Wilson/The New York TimesSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Jonah Engel BromwichIn just a year, Tyler “Ninja” Blevins, 27, has become the multimillionaire face of Fortnite, the impossibly popular battle royale video game in which up to 100 players are dropped onto an island to fight to the death, with only one emerging victorious. A former competitive Halo player, Blevins plays Fortnite for 10 hours a day in his home outside Chicago. He streams those games on Twitch, responding to questions and interacting with fans who pay to watch him play. He also competes in tournaments. Blevins’s reach is staggering. He has more than 12 million followers on Twitch, almost 12 million on Instagram and nearly 4 million on Twitter. He has landed on the cover of ESPN: The Magazine, and wherever he goes he is mobbed by teenagers and tweens who immediately recognize his brightly dyed hair. If you’ve never heard of Blevins, find a 12-year-old and ask them, because they surely know. In New York City to do a round of media appearances — Blevins is hosting a 12-hour Fortnite livestream in Times Square on New Year’s Eve — he stopped by the offices of The New York Times to answer some questions. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. In Fortnite there could be a situation where you can push into the kill or run away and get toward the safe zone. What’s the right play? The right play is the smart one — probably to get to the safe zone. But some player who is maybe really good at the game will go for the kill. And guess what? Someone else comes in, and the storm’s there, and he dies. The smart decision making — that’s what’s going to separate the next level of the game.… they’re the smartest decision? If I’m competing I will not go for those plays. Those plays do not reward you as a player. The whole point of battle royales is to survive. Me as a flashy player, a streamer, I’m going to go for the kill every time.I think it’s important for people to understand what they want.I’m O.K. with not traveling the world and competing in tournaments. And losing. I’ve won, I’ve lost. And losing is the worst, especially as a streamer when you are gone for five days, because you traveled across the world and you didn’t stream any of those days. You lost, you didn’t even make any money, and now you’re back home and you just dipped 10,000 subscribers.I’ll probably lose, like, 200 to 300.It’s stressful. What’s more stressful is that people don’t get it. Even my subscribers and my viewers, they’re like, “Ninja, man, you lost 5,000 subscribers.” I lost 100,000 when I went to E3. I went for four days, I won the tournament there with Marshmello, but I didn’t win money, it was for charity. So it was $500,000 — it was worth it, 100 percent, but I lost 100,000 subscribers.No, the longest vacation I’ve ever taken was my honeymoon, and that was like six days. And that was devastating. It was a calculated risk. My wife knew. God bless her, we’ve been together for almost six years now.No. Not at all. I love playing video games, man. And I’ll always love it.I am definitely still in my prime. I am still fantastic at the game, and I will never not be good at video games in my opinion.Like five or six is usually what I get.Of course I want eight, man. Are you kidding me? If I didn’t have to wake up to the alarm it would be the greatest thing in the world. I hate my alarm. I slam it and then just slowly roll out of bed, and I’m like, “I could probably use another two hours,” but, you know, got that schedule, dude. If I am five minutes late, I look at that chat and it’s like, “Is Ninja late? Is he streaming today? Why isn’t he on?”YouTube and Twitch are the primary incomes, for sure. And then I would say 20 percent deals and partnerships and things like that. And that’s generous. My wife can answer that perfectly for you.I wanted to hide how much we were making because I don’t care. But now I kind of want everyone to know: This is how much the top guys can make. It’s important that parents can see. All the contracts for professional athletes — all their salaries are public: This is how much the best quarterback makes, this is how much LeBron makes a year. That’s a huge driving factor in bringing things to, “Hey this is how much Ninja might make this year or next year.” That is now a bar that parents and kids can look up to.I don’t want to say this the wrong way and come across the wrong way, but of someone who is of my size and status, there aren’t this many people that are this big that are live all the time, that you have contact with. There are definitely celebrities you have no contact with. Some, you don’t see them unless they are on a movie screen.I have people that have access to me every single day. I get clickbait questions, donations, like what you just said, 10 hours a day I am basically deflecting 90 percent of the questions that people ask me.“Who is your favorite person you play with?” “Who is your favorite streamer that you play with?” “Who is the best basketball player that you’ve played with?”If I answer those questions, it’s going to be clickbait on an article or a YouTube video, and they will say “Ninja thinks Baker Mayfield is better than JuJu Smith-Schuster, or “Ninja thinks Dillon Francis is better than Marshmello.” Villanova was at the ESPYs. They were giants. “Can we get pictures, dude?” They were talking about Fortnite.It’s actually something we’re trying to work with more. Because they’re also super interested in working with us, to collab. JuJu Smith-Schuster, I think, was the first athlete I played with. The first artist ever was Will Lowry, the rapper. We had a lot of fun with that, man. Baker Mayfield, I think I play with him the most now.He’s actually really good. He puts a lot of time in, so he should be.Lions, man.I know. It’s O.K. I was born in Detroit, and my dad was a Lions fan when we moved. My brother was a Lions fan for 12 years, and then my dad had enough of the Lions.He didn’t even know who I was, which made it even more amazing because he still came up to me, took a picture with me, I shook his hand, took a picture with my family. Afterward, literally as we left, he’s like “Ninja, you’re a gamer. I’m going to ask my boys about you when I get home.” And then literally that night he tweeted and was like “I had no idea you were such a big gaming influence man, it was a pleasure meeting you, let’s do something in the future.”The goal was just to be bigger than gaming. That is something everyone strives for, right? Michael Jordan, LeBron James, all those people. These are the first-generation e-sports teams. Are they making the right decisions all the time? Probably not. Were the first people who created business in the history of businesses getting it right on the first time? Probably not. Are there poor investments? For sure. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who file bankruptcy God knows how many times before they finally actually hit the nail on the head with a good business. It is the same thing with a lot of e-sports teams. Definitely, but I’d like to be like LeBron James. If you want to put that in there …Kevin Draper is a sports business reporter, covering the leagues, owners, unions, stadiums and media companies behind the games. Prior to joining The Times, he was an editor at Deadspin.  @kevinmdraper Jonah Bromwich is based in New York. He writes for the Style section.  @jonesieman AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael J. de la MercedFortnite has become one of the biggest video game sensations in the world. Now its maker, Epic Games, is cashing in.On Friday, Epic said it had raised $1.25 billion from a group that included investment firms like KKR, plus aXiomatic, the owner of the e-sports company Team Liquid.Behind the investment is the hope that Fortnite will remain a global phenomenon. Since it was released last year, teenagers and celebrities like Drake have hailed the game. It has made stars of prominent e-sports players like Tyler Blevins, who is known as Ninja. And its characters’ dances have been co-opted by professional athletes on baseball fields and World Cup pitches alike.Fortnite features an online battle royale in which hundreds of players fight for survival. The game is free to play, but players pay to upgrade their characters’ outfits or dances. Analysts have estimated that Fortnite has generated hundreds of millions in sales for Epic, including nearly $300 million in in-game revenue in April alone.The company’s last headline-making round was in 2012, when the Chinese internet giant Tencent bought a 40 percent stake at a roughly $825 million valuation. But that was before Fortnite.It is unclear at what valuation the latest round was struck. Other investors included Iconiq Capital, Kleiner Perkins and Lightspeed Venture Partners. A spokeswoman for Epic declined to comment.The investment comes with risks. Tops among them is how much longer Fortnite will remain a phenomenon. Its popularity on the video game streaming service Twitch appears to have peaked in July, at 151 million hours of streaming, according to the research firm SteamElements.In a statement, Epic’s founder and chief executive, Tim Sweeney, suggested that his company’s appeal lay beyond Fortnite. “This reinforces Epic’s position of leadership in real-time 3-D technology and accelerates our ability to improve the way people play, work and interact with the world,” he said.Kevin Draper contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bruce WeberDan Jenkins, a sportswriter whose rollicking irreverence enlivened Sports Illustrated’s pages for nearly 25 years and animated several novels, including “Semi-Tough,” a sendup of the steroidal appetites, attitudes and hype in pro football that became a classic of sports lit, died on Thursday in Fort Worth. He was 90.He had experienced heart and renal failure and had recently broken his hip, said his daughter, Sally Jenkins, a sports columnist for The Washington Post.Mr. Jenkins was among a cadre of Sports Illustrated writers — including Roy Blount Jr., Mark Kram and Frank Deford — recruited by André Laguerre, the managing editor who oversaw the magazine’s emergence as a leader in literate, and occasionally literary, sports journalism as well as a powerhouse in the Time Inc. stable. Mr. Jenkins joined the magazine in 1962.A Texan with a good old boy’s pride in country common sense over urban sophistication, Mr. Jenkins brought a Southern wiseacre erudition to the pages of a magazine not exactly used to the arch or earthy or impolitic remark. Opinionated, more than occasionally snarky, he wrote with an open appreciation of athletes and coaches, bars, pretty women and chicken fried steak, replete with clever put-downs and outlandish metaphors.His main beats were golf and college football, sports he grew up with in Fort Worth.“The devoted golfer is an anguished soul who has learned a lot about putting just the way an avalanche victim has learned a lot about snow,” Mr. Jenkins wrote in an article for the magazine that earned him a full-time job there. “He knows he has used straight shafts, curved shafts, shiny shafts, dull shafts, glass shafts, oak shafts and Great Uncle Clyde’s World War I saber, which he found in the attic. Attached to these shafts have been putter heads made of large lumps of lead (‘weight makes the ball roll true,’ salesmen explain) and slivers of aluminum (‘lightness makes the ball roll true,’ salesmen explain) as well as every other substance harder than a marshmallow. He knows he has tried 41 different stances, inspired by everyone from the club pro to Fred Astaire in ‘Flying Down to Rio’ and as many different strokes. Still, he knows he is hopelessly trapped. He can’t putt, and he never will, and the only thing left for him to do is bury his head in the dirt and live the rest of his life like a radish.”Mr. Jenkins was fond of toying with racial, ethnic, national and social stereotypes in a distinctly non-P.C. manner, and was especially defiant in doing so outside the stricture of magazine journalism, particularly in “Semi-Tough” his first and best-known novel, published in 1972.The book is narrated by Billy Clyde Puckett, a star running back for the New York Giants and a Fort Worth native.Set in the week leading up to an all-New York Super Bowl in which the Giants are to face the Jets, the novel is a pouring out of Billy Clyde’s observations and attitudes — brash, cynical, boastful, charming, shrewd, rip-snortingly vulgar and often hilarious — as he speaks into a tape recorder for the purpose of publishing a book.What results is a hyperbolic, first-person report on a world whose lexicon involves all manner of stereotype and slur and whose concerns are more or less confined to food, drink, drugs, money, sex, digestive excretions and football. Often cited as among the funniest sports books ever written, it came in at No. 7 on Sports Illustrated’s 2002 list of the top 100 sports books of all time.“I loved it,” David Halberstam wrote in The New York Times Book Review. “I read it aloud to my wife, who does not like football one bit, and she loved it. It is outrageous. It mocks contemporary American mores. It mocks Madison Avenue; it mocks racial attitudes; it mocks writers like me; and it even mocks sportswriters for Sports Illustrated like Dan Jenkins.”“Semi-Tough” was adapted for a 1978 movie that starred Burt Reynolds as Billy Clyde Puckett.Dan Thomas Jenkins was born in Fort Worth on Dec. 2, 1928, although many sources list the year as 1929. His father, E. T. Jenkins Jr., known as Bud, was a salesman, a gambler and evidently a charmer who left the family when Dan was a toddler, though he showed up now and then to take his son to sporting events.In a 2014 book, “His Ownself: A Semi-Memoir,” Mr. Jenkins expressed a fondness for his father, as well as for his mother, Catherine (O’Hern) Jenkins, whom he described with arch affection as a self-indulgent character who sold antiques and remodeled houses “and ultimately invented the migraine headache.”From the age of 2, Mr. Jenkins grew up — contentedly, he wrote, in spite of the Depression — in the home of his father’s parents. He became the first member of the family to go to college, — at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, where he played on the golf team. One of his early heroes, the golfer Ben Hogan, also lived in Fort Worth, and Hogan became something of a mentor, admired by Mr. Jenkins for his work ethic, perseverance (Hogan returned to championship golf after nearly being killed in a car accident in 1949) and devotion to excellence.Mr. Jenkins got his first job in journalism in the mid-1950s, at The Fort Worth Press, hired by Blackie Sherrod, a writer and editor who would himself become celebrated in Texas as a Southern Damon Runyon. Mr. Jenkins succeeded Sherrod, whom he cited as an influence, as sports editor before landing at Sports Illustrated.Mr. Jenkins’s first two marriages ended in divorce. In 1959, he married June Burrage, whom he had known while growing up in Fort Worth. She survives him. In addition to his daughter, his survivors include his sons Marty and Dan Jr., a granddaughter and a great-granddaughter.Mr. Jenkins plumbed the homey if earthy wisdom of Fort Worth in a number of books after “Semi-Tough,” including the novels “Dead Solid Perfect” (1974), about a professional golfer in the swaggering Billy Clyde mold, and “Baja Oklahoma” (1981), about a feisty waitress and single mother with aspirations to be a country singer; both became television movies.Another novel, “You Gotta Play Hurt” (1991), a sendup of the sportswriter’s life, tells of a cantankerous Fort Worthian and the stuffy, big time magazine he works for. Mr. Jenkins wrote it after leaving Sports Illustrated in the 1980s in a dispute with the managing editor at the time, Gilbert Rogin.He went on to write for Playboy and was a senior writer for Golf Digest, where in 2014 he created a squall with a parody of an interview with Tiger Woods in which he portrayed Mr. Woods as being arrogant and spoiled. In a response on The Players Tribune website, Mr. Woods called the article “a grudge-fueled piece of character assassination.”“Journalistically and ethically,” he wrote, “can you sink any lower?”Mr. Jenkins’s other books include “Limo,” a 1976 novel written with Bud Shrake, an old pal from Fort Worth who also wrote for Sports Illustrated; it satirizes network television by depicting the creation of a show that prefigures today’s reality programming.None of Mr. Jenkins’s subsequent novels had the impact of his first. This was partly because the bawdy audacity that characterized “Semi-Tough” seemed less audacious in later books, and partly because the characters espousing the attitudes and employing the language favored by Billy Clyde and friends struck many readers as much less appealing as public attitudes changed.Mr. Jenkins openly lamented this societal swivel. His characters spoke bitterly of it in his later novels, and his memoir, though full of vintage Jenkins phrase-turning and storytelling about the good old days of sports and sportswriting, is spiked with a sour loathing of what he called political correctness; the book, echoing the opening of “Semi-Tough,” contains some ill-humored and offensive remarks about Asians.As the Times book critic Dwight Garner noted in his review of the memoir, “His anti-P.C. campaign is where his geezer routine crosses over into something worse.”“Now this writer is going to be partly remembered for this stuff,” he added, “which is a shame.”It’s a shame, Mr. Garner wrote, because of how generous Mr. Jenkins was.“I woke up with a smile on my face every morning during the two or three days I spent reading ‘His Ownself,’ ” he wrote. The book, he said, is “one of those books that reminds you that good stories happen only to people who can tell them.”Richard Sandomir contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperSANTA ANA, Calif. — The three-story, 95-year-old historic brick building in this city’s downtown certainly does not look like the future of sports.The windows are covered with paper on the inside to block light, and it is across the street from the Orange County Church of Scientology, near a parking garage and a parking lot.But the huge NBC Sports production truck parked outside points to something important happening. Inside the building, known as the Esports Arena, 16 two-person teams are competing at Rocket League, a video game in which players control rocket-powered cars playing a version of soccer. The winners of the contests, the Universal Open Rocket League Grand Finals, will take home the largest share of a $100,000 prize pool.The players, who sit in front of monitors with controllers in hand, wearing headsets to communicate with their teammates, are surrounded on three sides by bleachers filled with a couple hundred fans. Behind them is a stage with three analysts, the esports equivalent of studio broadcasters. Above them, on the mezzanine level, are play-by-play commentators, called casters, and more players taking part in lower-bracket matches.The Esports Arena, the country’s first venue opened specifically for esports competitions, opened in 2015.The tournament is NBC’s first foray into esports — two hours from the tournament on Saturday and Sunday nights were broadcast on NBCSN, and hours more were streamed online — and they constructed a set with a dark futuristic aesthetic with spotlights, smoke machines and a lot of neon orange and blue, the Rocket League’s colors.The developers of the arena, Paul Ward and Tyler Endres, who are both 29, met in middle school playing basketball, and later attended nearby Azusa Pacific University together, but are gamers at heart. “Our kitchen in college was TVs and Xboxes,” said Endres, and they ran impromptu tournaments whenever possible.Esports, a broad term encompassing forms of competitive video games, is already a big business, and growing rapidly. The owner of the New England Patriots, Robert K. Kraft, and the Mets executive Jeff Wilpon recently bought teams that will compete in a league for the game Overwatch, reportedly for $20 million or more, and competitions at arenas like Madison Square Garden and Staples Center in Los Angeles have sold out.But there are dozens of smaller tournaments and leagues that need a place to be staged, which is where the Esports Arena — and several others in the works — comes in.Ward and Endres began raising money in 2012, but struggled to persuade possible landlords that they could generate enough revenue to pay the rent from something called esports. But after looking at potential sites across Southern California, the owner of the 95-year-old building saw their proposal and agreed to rent them his building.The space they built — much of it by hand, laying carpet and running heavy-duty internet infrastructure themselves — is relatively spartan, with concrete floors and few fixed objects. “It needs to be modular,” Ward said, because the arena is constantly hosting events of different sizes with different needs.For big events, the 15,000-square-foot space can seat 900 fans, but capacity was reduced to 500 for the Universal Open because of the elaborate set.Soon, Ward and Endres will be running three esports arenas. A 16,000 square foot arena is scheduled to open in Oakland, Calif., this year, and a 30,000-square-foot arena is expected to open in the Luxor Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas early next year.This expansion is fueled by a multimillion-dollar investment in the Esports Arena by Allied ESports, a consortium of Chinese sports and entertainment companies that owns an esports arena in Beijing among other properties. The plan is to expand far beyond Oakland and Las Vegas in the next several years.“We would like to partner with home arena-based teams,” Ward said. “We have no limitations in where we can invest.”But in the meantime, they have just the single arena, and it played host to a big tournament.The arena was closed all week to prepare for the Universal Open, which is significant because the Esports Arena is not just a professional venue. During the week, it hosts a variety of amateur competitions, as well as open play on its machines for members who pay $10 a month, much cheaper than paying by the hour at video game cafes. They start weeknight events late so people can navigate the notoriously bad traffic of the Los Angeles area.The arena is undergoing a number of improvements to make it an even more attractive place to spend hours at a time. The arena will soon serve alcohol — they struggled to get an alcohol permit because city officials “didn’t believe people over 21 years old played video games,” Endres said — and are expanding the food offerings beyond snacks. They have also stepped up in-house production abilities to broadcast their tournaments.“As you look at the proliferation of esports,” said Rob Simmelkjaer, the NBC Sports executive overseeing the tournament and broadcast, “you start to see a need for more venues.”While players sit in front of fans, once the match begins, the audience spends most of its time staring up at the screens dotting the arena to watch the action taking place. It’s a cross between a live event and a studio production. Between matches you can hear the analysts breaking down what happened but you cannot see the replays being broadcast, and a producer is continually telling fans to get up and cheer.Like the competitors, the audience skewed young and male, but there were plenty of women and families, too. When great shots went in or were met with even better saves, the crowd stood up and cheered loudly without prompting.When asked why they attended esports competitions, many people talked about the excitement of the game, but also gave another reason. You can play video games in-person or online with others, but they are still primarily a solitary hobby. It is also one that, despite its growing mainstream acceptance, still carries a whiff of nerdy stigma. Esports competitions are a place to share your passion with like-minded fans.Billy Weckstein, 17, was attending his first esports event. A fan of baseball and basketball in addition to Rocket League, he persuadeed his family to fly out from New Jersey for the Universal Open, and the Wecksteins made a short vacation out of it. “I just want to do something fun for our summer, because our summer is kind of boring,” he said. “It’s really cool to be a part of the crowd. It is just so cool, pumping up the players and stuff.”Perhaps even more encouraging for the future of esports competitions and venues like the Esports Arena, Billy’s parents and twin sister, Kelly, seemed almost as thrilled by the play as he was. If Ward and Endres are successful, they will soon own a network of arenas across the country, and the Wecksteins will not have to fly 3,000 miles to watch Rocket League.“Where there is demand, supply always blossoms,” Simmelkjaer, of NBC, said. “That’s capitalism.”AdvertisementDuring an interview with The New York Times at a TimesTalks event, Microsoft C.E.O. Satya Nadella said that women in the technology industry have “a lot of distance” to make up.AdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Lisa Kerney once earned her living hosting “SportsCenter” on ESPN, making her a nightly fixture in the vast American conversation between sports fans and their favorite athletes, teams and leagues. Her latest endeavor, she believes, is just as all-American.Every Saturday, Kerney slips into the anchor’s chair of a very different kind of television program: a sports betting show from a makeshift studio at the Meadowlands Racetrack. Instead of reporting just scores and news, Kerney now also rattles off N.F.L. point spreads and money-line odds as easily as a CNBC host talks stock prices and P/E ratios.She will be on the air again this Sunday, serving up information on the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams in the hours before Super Bowl LIII. The game will take its place in American gambling history because, for the first time, bettors will be allowed to wager on the N.F.L.’s championship game legally, not only in Nevada but also in seven other states.By next year, gambling may be legal in more than a dozen more states, a shift that is already moving betting on games into the mainstream of American culture and teaching fans to look at the sports contests they love as investment opportunities as well as entertainment.“Now fans are able to play the game within the game,” Kerney said. “It goes beyond the nuts and bolts of who’s going to win. It is a whole new way of experiencing sports.”Last May, when the Supreme Court struck down a federal law that prohibited expanded sports gambling, it created — almost overnight — a billion-dollar market that bookmakers, media companies, tech entrepreneurs, touts and quants have rushed in to dominate.On the high end, that has meant sports shows that incorporate into their coverage market-moving information like injury reports and their effect on bettors. But it also means digital subscription services that make a tsunami of sports data available, and app makers eager to help bettors slice it.On the retail front, the innovations have been more basic: how-to-bet sports camps, cable shows that explain the difference between a proposition and parlay bets, and Nevada-based tout services — which for decades have picked winners for a price — that have suddenly refashioned themselves into media companies.“If you have a way to make betting more fun, or to otherwise increase consumer investment in betting, the market needs you,” said Chris Grove, a managing director at Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, an independent research firm. “If you have a way to salve any of the pain points for consumers in the regulated sports betting — the learning curve, hassles with payments, ensuring that you’re getting the price — then the market absolutely needs you.”As sports betting and bills are being shepherded through legislatures in at least 15 other states, the early returns show there is plenty of opportunity in what is a familiar but nascent industry. In New Jersey, for example, sportsbooks at Meadowlands Racetrack and their online counterparts have handled more than $1.2 billion in wagers since the market was born in mid-June, despite having only three brick-and-mortar outlets in the early going and no availability for online wagering until August. If retail and online wagering were to become accessible in all 50 states, Eilers & Krejcik predicted, sports betting in America could become a $16 billion industry.Figures from regulators in Mississippi and Rhode Island also show an upward trend. New Jersey is on pace to surpass Nevada in sports wagering. And though market oversaturation could eventually slow or halt the industry’s rapid growth, that is not a pressing concern.Legalized sports betting has already changed the way some fans consume sports. This month, NBC Sports Washington Plus, a regional sports network, offered an alternate telecast of several Washington Wizards games, starting with one against the Milwaukee Bucks, that looked like a cross between CNBC and ESPNews. Unlike most N.B.A. telecasts, the productions included statistics, odds and point spreads alongside the live action. It was a preview of what game telecasts may look like in a mature sports betting landscape.In two years, the Las Vegas-based Vegas Stats & Information Network (VSiN) has grown from a start-up streaming service with 1.4 million visitors to 12.6 million visitors a month — across video and audio streams like Sirius XM and fuboTV — seeking “actionable information” delivered by a roster of Las Vegas bookmakers and professional gamblers, including the longtime CBS broadcaster Brent Musburger.The Super Bowl, though, has been an integral part of America’s sporting fabric and a highlight of the betting year since long before the Supreme Court’s ruling last year made it legal in more jurisdictions.Last year, for example, $159 million was bet on the Super Bowl legally in Nevada, a respectable take for any business but one that paled in comparison to the estimates of the amount — as high as $4.6 billion — wagered on the game illegally. This year, with eight states now offering legal sports betting, projections for wagering on Sunday’s Super Bowl LIII have risen to more than $325 million, according to PlayUSA, which monitors the legal sports market. That haul is expected to soar as more states bring betting on games out of the realm of corner-bar bookies and offshore operators and onto their tax rolls.At the same time, the popularity of fantasy sports and the growing amounts of easily accessible data and analytics have not merely hastened the acceptance of sports betting: They have transformed the nature of fandom.“This is a generational thing, and what we’ve seen is a perfect storm develop over the last 20 years, with a boom in fantasy sports, the interest in ‘moneyball’ and the democracy of information through technology,” said Chad Millman, the chief content officer at The Action Network, a subscriber-based media company. “It’s meant that fans have become more opportunistic about their fandom. They think about winning individually, not about rooting for a team.”The Action Network runs a website and an app offering data, research and betting tools, as well as general coverage of sports and the nuances of cashing in on them. It also produces a betting show — called “I’ll Take That Bet” — for ESPN+, the sports broadcaster’s new streaming platform.Millman would not say how many subscribers the Action Network has in its first year, but since April, he said, users of the company’s app have logged 13 million bets, and the circulation of the Action Network’s email newsletter has grown nearly tenfold, to 240,000.“In general, sports fans want to be smarter than their friends,” Millman said. “As sports betting becomes more and more part of the conversation, people are trying to figure out what the language of it is.”For now at least, there is a difference between a general sports audience and sports betting audience, a gap Kerney, the former “SportsCenter” anchor, is trying to navigate on her show, created by the bookmaker FanDuel, from the Meadowlands.“Most sports bettors will notice every second on or off the clock, every yard, every pitch, every shot, because any of these can ultimately affect their bets,” said Kevin Grigsby, the show’s executive producer. “So your story, programming, messaging needs narrative that caters to both cohorts.”Kerney and Grigsby’s bosses at FanDuel are making a big bet that they can close that gap quickly. FanDuel is owned by the European bookmakers Paddy Power, as is TVG, the cable network that is home to Kerney’s show. TVG reaches 40 million homes and gives horseplayers wall-to-wall coverage of races that they can bet on through a proprietary website or app. As sports betting expands, TVG is poised to also expand programming like Kerney’s show. FanDuel already takes bets on all sports.With a more than half-century head start on legalized betting, European bookmakers handled more than $13 billion in wagers in 2018, according to Eilers & Krejcik. That is a number Paddy Power and other bookmakers expect the United States market to surpass in as few as five to seven years.“The biggest advantage we have right now is that the leagues, the networks, or me and you don’t have to pretend anymore that there are not hundreds of millions of dollars bet every day on the games we follow,” Kerney said. “We are here to educate and inform but also to become an authority in this space. If we do our jobs, we believe people who follow us will make money.”You can follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrapeAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerPHILADELPHIA — While writing a sermon in September, Cheryl Pyrch, the pastor of Summit Presbyterian Church, needed an assist. On the topic of greatness and Jesus Christ, she wanted to open with recollections of greats in other spheres.She didn’t have to look very far for a source.Having encountered Wilt Chamberlain in passing almost 40 years ago, she decided he was the great she wanted to highlight. And details of his career — four Most Valuable Player Awards, seven N.B.A. scoring titles — were close at hand, literally and figuratively through Sports Reference, a monolith of sports data websites that just happens to rent space from the church.“I didn’t know all this in 1980,” Pyrch told the congregation as she described Chamberlain’s awards during the Sunday service. “I got it yesterday from a Sports Reference website.”The ubiquitous Sports Reference family of websites — Baseball-Reference.com, Basketball-Reference.com, Pro-Football-Reference.com, Hockey-Reference.com, and so on — are some of the most popular sports almanacs on the internet.They draw users of all kinds, from people casually searching for a trivia answer to owners of professional teams. Aided by an overhaul of its mobile website, Sports Reference’s founder and president, Sean Forman, said the group of sites drew one billion page views last year, a record for the company.Sports Reference, however, does not have the gleaming offices or huge staff of a digital titan. It has 11 full-time employees and is headquartered on the third floor of a building at Summit Presbyterian in Philadelphia, behind the 100-year-old main church and above the gymnasium, which is often used as a day care center.“Walking through it to come in and out, sometimes you’re going through 3-year-olds tossing balls,” said Mike Kania, 38, who eight years ago became one of the company’s first employees. “I worked for AOL for a long time where we had a badge to scan at the front door, people there and a front desk. It’s a lot different from that.”It is, in fact, a point of pride among Sports Reference employees that the sites have grown from humble beginnings into oft-used resources. Until late last year, Forman, 47, was cleaning the office and taking out the trash. (He has since hired the church’s janitor to take over those duties.)They are among the most popular sports-related sites. Basketball-Reference trails only NBA.com, while Pro-Football-Reference is second to NFL.com, according to SimilarWeb. Nearly two decades after Forman created Baseball-Reference, it ranks third among baseball sites, behind MLB.com and MLBTradeRumors.com. (Baseball-Reference, however, is the top draw in Forman’s stable.)The sites are not just for casual fans. J.J. Redick, the Philadelphia 76ers guard, pays for an advertising-free Basketball-Reference subscription. John Henry, the principal owner of the Boston Red Sox and Liverpool F.C., uses Baseball-Reference’s Play Index to manage statistical searches. Scott Boras, the well-known baseball agent, donated $100 to the company during its infancy because he had relied on the site’s data while negotiating a contract for Andruw Jones, Forman said.“I use it daily,” said Thad Levine, the Minnesota Twins general manager, although his team, like many others, generates its own advanced and proprietary data.“We went so far as to hire one of their back-end programmers,” added Levine, referring to Hans Van Slooten, who oversaw Baseball-Reference until June, when the Twins hired him for their front office.The sites are still expanding and developing. Forman said he envisioned Basketball-Reference eventually surpassing Baseball-Reference in traffic as a result of the data revolution in the N.B.A. And over the summer, Sports Reference began another major undertaking: a soccer website, FBref.com, which the company hopes will be as comprehensive as its other sites. In a twist from its current offerings, the company is planning to make the soccer site bilingual, with English and Spanish versions.The sites are painstakingly tweaked for updates and corrections. Some errors are reported through the dozens of emails the company receives daily. One came from the mother of Casey Fossum, a former major league pitcher. She wrote to say that her son’s birth date was wrong. It was corrected.Other requests reveal the reach of Sports Reference.A pitching coach sent an email asking that his Italian league statistics be added to his page so that his players would stop teasing him about being a bad pitcher. A woman wrote in to say that she was dating a person who claimed to be a former N.F.L. player but that she could not find him on Pro-Football-Reference. She wanted to know if that was because of an oversight or a lie.“I tried to let her down as gently as possible,” said Mike Lynch, 37, whose official title with the company is managing stathead. “I said something like, ‘If he was cut in training camp, we wouldn’t necessarily have a record of him playing in a regular season game.’”Sports Reference started with Baseball-Reference in 2000, when Forman, looking to avoid work on his doctoral dissertation on applied mathematical and computational sciences at the University of Iowa, began building a website from the CD-ROM that accompanied the printed Total Baseball encyclopedias. He hoped to make historical data more accessible.Forman, who has contributed to The New York Times’s baseball coverage in the past, expanded his endeavor by creating Sports Reference in 2004. Three years later he formalized loose affiliations with Pro-Football-Reference (founded by Doug Drinen in 2000) and Basketball-Reference (founded by Justin Kubatko in 2004). Kubatko left Sports Reference in 2013 because of what he called “creative differences.”In 2007, Forman still fit the stats nerd stereotype, working out of the basement of his home and staying up until 1 a.m. updating or improving the website. The year before, he had left his full-time job of six years — professor of mathematics and computer science at St. Joseph’s University — because it was too hard to juggle both. He also needed a better place to work.So Forman turned to his church, which had space to rent.Sports Reference’s seven websites are usually updated automatically, mostly from official feeds of statistics that the company pays for. Some data, such as roster transactions or salary information, is input manually, and there are always bugs to fix.Once you get beyond the basics, however, the information on the sites runs the gamut of sources.They include a collection of old college media guides acquired from a single collector and a professor in Britain who supplies statistics of independent baseball leagues. The sites also add some things just for fun, such as Oddibe McDowell’s page listing his utility bills from 2011 and part of 2012, in reference to a series of articles by Deadspin.Sports Reference’s goal is to become more comprehensive, even as sports leagues increasingly privatize their data. Eventually, the company hopes to charge for advanced features and to become less dependent on advertising, which currently generates 95 percent of the sites’ revenue. As of now, the only advanced tool that requires a paid subscription is Baseball-Reference’s Play Index. (Don’t worry: The page for the former Met Keith Hernandez’s mustache will live forever.)That the little company in her church has become so important, with leading sports websites, earned a laugh from Pyrch. She had been to the sites once or twice, including the time she did sermon research.“I think that both myself and most of the congregation would not realize what kind of a powerhouse Sports Reference is,” she said. “I don’t really know a lot about numbers or computers, but one billion is a lot.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongScott Van Pelt closed an episode of “SportsCenter” last month with a two-minute monologue about the 31st anniversary of his father’s death. Strengthened by two friends who had recently lost their parents, Van Pelt spoke passionately about running from grief, and encouraged everyone to do the opposite — to articulate their pain so they could overcome it.The segment went viral. It embodied the essential traits of Van Pelt’s version of ESPN’s flagship show — sensitivity, nuance and the courage to be vulnerable — that help him connect with viewers.“It’s a great reminder of the power of the microphone we hold in our hands,” Van Pelt said.But that power is changing — disappearing, even — as television viewing habits change and sports media develop new ways to bring fans what they want when they want it. (Now!) That means what was once a premier placement in TV sports — the anchor desk — is not the high perch it used to be. It is not clear anymore what it is at all.Not so long ago, sports fans operated on a schedule dictated by the programming that was available on TV. The sports highlight show, “SportsCenter” being the most popular one, was appointment viewing.It was where sports fans went to see the highlights they could only read about in the newspaper. People came to know its anchors: Keith Olbermann, Linda Cohn, Stuart Scott, Robin Roberts, Dan Patrick, to name a few. They complemented the sports clips with their own personalities and, in the case of Scott, redefined the highlight show genre.But today, highlights flood fans’ Twitter timelines immediately: a buzzer beater on loop seconds after it drops through the net; a touchdown from multiple angles before referees have ruled it good. They flood our Instagram feeds thanks to users like House of Highlights, which delivers the day’s most important sports highlights to more than 12 million followers.“SportsCenter,” even with six editions each weekday, can no longer dangle the carrot of providing clips unavailable anywhere else. On most nights, when the highlight package rolls, Van Pelt is telling a majority of the viewers about something they have already seen.“Every person covering sports is trying to figure out the riddle,” Van Pelt said. He asked how a program could deliver highlights “to you in a way that you will want it and convince yourself that you will need it.”Omar Raja, 24, is the founder of House of Highlights. He grew up watching sports highlights on the local news with his father every morning. When Kobe Bryant scored 81 points against the Toronto Raptors in 2006, he did not find out about it until he turned on his TV the next morning.“It’s crazy to think 10 years ago, we had to wait until the next day to find out what happened the night before,” Raja said.Raja’s team can now offer instant access to what everyone is talking about. But Raja thinks traditional and new-age highlights delivery systems can coexist. He still watches “SportsCenter,” after all, especially Van Pelt’s midnight edition.“I don’t really listen to him for the highlights,” Raja said. “I just listen to him for his thoughts on things. He’s a good personality, and he’s charismatic.”When Van Pelt took over as anchor in 2015, he said, he decided to lean on his personality and trust the audience to connect with his curiosity about sports.Per ESPN, Van Pelt has consistently generated higher ratings among 18-to 34-year-old men in his midnight time slot than late-night talk shows on broadcast or cable. Other sports anchors have tried a similar approach, to lesser degrees of success.Jay Onrait and Dan O’Toole’s show on Fox Sports went through several iterations before pivoting toward a late-night show format; it was canceled in 2017. Jemele Hill and Michael Smith were chosen to overhaul the 6 p.m. “SportsCenter,” but the reformatted show — called “SC6” or “The Six” — lasted a little more than a year before it was broken up in 2018. During its run, Hill was criticized for a post to her personal Twitter account about President Trump, and for another about the N.F.L., for which ESPN suspended her.“To ignore the racial component and the climate that they faced would be completely dishonest,” Van Pelt said of Hill and Smith, who are African-American. “They faced challenges that I didn’t face. They also didn’t have the benefits that I have.”Those benefits include a midnight slot that allows Van Pelt to experiment in front of a smaller potential audience, and stronger lead-ins from “Monday Night Football” during the N.F.L. season.Onrait, who now hosts “Jay and Dan” on TSN in Canada at midnight, has adopted the sensibilities of a late-night talk-show host in this turn as a sports anchor.“Personality is what’s going to rule the next phase of television,” Onrait said.Others, such as Skip Bayless of Fox Sports, combine so-called “hot takes” with continuous criticism of high-profile athletes like LeBron James to connect with viewers.“The only thing that really worked at Fox was Skip,” Onrait said. “Nothing was working until Skip showed up. No one got ratings. I know lots of people have made a living out of crapping on the guy, but what he did was bring actual viewers to the network. He was the only one who did that.”In a statement to The New York Times, Norby Williamson, an ESPN executive who oversees “SportsCenter,” pushed back against the idea that the show is becoming obsolete.“We recognize that people have many options for viewing highlights now, but we continue to develop presentations that you’re not going to see anywhere else,” Williamson said. “We’ll show you what happened but also how it happened and why.”While ESPN still sees its network and the “SportsCenter” franchise as vital to the fan’s experience, what really matters is whether viewers will continue to see it this way.Van Pelt knows that reckoning is coming soon.“I keep thinking to myself this is a short window,” Van Pelt said. “It won’t go on forever.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of editions of “SportsCenter” each weekday. There are six, not four.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe right bra can beat bounce and end chafing — and it might change the way you work out.By Anna PerlingMs. Perling is a staff writer at Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company.At 12 years old, Holly Powell quit the swim team when her breasts outgrew her swimsuit. In college, she started jogging. “There were no sports bras for me back then,” Ms. Powell said, now 50 and still a regular exerciser. “I had broken blood vessels all across the top of my bust.”When Ms. Powell went sports bra shopping, salespeople told her they didn’t sell bras in her size. In 2011, Ms. Powell, who lives in Portland, Oregon, left her career as a teacher and librarian to open her own bra store, The Pencil Test. Her store now stocks 125 sizes, from 28D to 48G, while regular bra stores stock 25 to 30, she said. “It was a case of ‘If no one else is doing it, do it yourself.’”Ms. Powell’s store is unique, but the problems her customers face are not — and they’re common to both casual exercisers and more serious athletes. Before finding a bra that fit right, Robin Proctor, 58, of Lake Lure, North Carolina, would chafe until she nearly bled on long mountain bike rides. “On a hot day, you feel like you physically beat yourself in the chest because your breasts are bouncing around,” she said. Ms. Proctor eventually found a bra, the Enell Sport, capable of locking down her breasts (the material, she said, is like Kevlar).In a recent study, researchers from the Biomechanics Research Laboratory at the University of Wollongong in Australia found a strong relationship between breast size and regular exercise. In short, women with larger breasts were more discouraged from working out. Out of 82 women with breasts categorized as large, 46 percent said their breast size affected their exercise routine and 58 percent of the 43 women with breasts categorized as very large reported the same (researchers categorized sizes by volume rather than relying on bra size).The good news is that a better bra can significantly increase comfort during exercise. A 2012 study from the University of Portsmouth in England found that a correctly fitting bra can reduce breast pain. Meanwhile, researchers at the University of Wollongong recently developed their own app to help people find the right fit. (Wirecutter recommends these five sports bras for different cup sizes.)Ms. Powell has witnessed firsthand how a superior sports bra can impact emotional as well as physical health. “I’ve had people come to me saying, ‘My personal best improved, I go to the gym more often,’” she said. “Having a bra that fits you deeply affects your self-esteem.”When possible, get a professional fitting and try on as many bras as possible in a store. If a professional fitting isn’t an option, the subreddit r/ABraThatFits hosts a dynamic size calculator that considers six over-bust and under-bust measurements from different angles, far beyond the typical two. The group’s members often help with fit checks based on photos or descriptions, as do the bloggers on the website Bratabase. Sizing is inconsistent between brands, but many companies offer a sizing chart you can use to find the best option based on your own measurements.Although many sports bras come in basic small, medium, large, and extra large sizes, some use a familiar sizing system that includes both cup measurements (A, B, C, D, E, F and so on) and band measurements (32, 34, 40, 44 and so on). Styles that use cup and band measurements have more sizes to help you fine-tune your fit.After measuring, you may come up with a size that isn’t available at a major retailer. Ms. Powell suggests looking for brands with U.K. sizing, which generally offer more cup size options. You can find these at online retailers like HerRoom and Bare Necessities.Sports bras come in three major styles: compression, encapsulation and combination. Compression bras hug the breasts close to the body to stop bouncing. Most aren’t adjustable and come in relatively few sizes. They usually have a wide solid front panel, which can mush breasts together to create a “uniboob” look.Encapsulation bras look like fashion bras. They separate breasts into two distinct cups and provide support through seaming, molding or underwire. Typically, encapsulation bras offer more, better-fitting options than compression bras.Combination bras offer aspects of both designs. Breasts move laterally as well as up and down during high-impact exercise, and a combination bra is often the best choice to control movement.Some more constructed sports bras, especially encapsulation styles, can look Madonna-esque. But don’t worry about aesthetics if a bra offers you the best support, advises LaJean Lawson, a scientist and consultant for the sportswear brand Champion. “Have that boldness to say, ‘I’m going to put that personal bias aside to try new things even if they look like my grandma’s bra,’” she said.Hook your bra on the loosest setting (you can tighten the band as the material stretches over time). Then, situate your breasts. “Take a hand inside from under the armpit and scoop it inside the cup” and then smooth the top of your tissue so that everything settles, advised Iris Clarke, the owner of Iris Lingerie in Brooklyn, New York.Most of a bra’s support comes from the band, so it should be snug, with about a half inch of give — you can put two fingers between the band and your back to check. Raise your arms above your head to see if the band rides up or gapes. Check the straps to make sure they feel snug without digging in or falling off your shoulders, and adjust the length accordingly.Move on to the cups, which should fully cover your breasts. If you have spillage, you may need to size up. If the fabric is baggy and wrinkly, size down.If you’re evaluating an encapsulation bra, look at the triangle-shaped section that falls between your breasts, called the “gore.” It should lie flat. If the bra has wires, they should sit under the breasts, without digging into your sides or riding up onto the breast tissue (if this happens, size up).Look for bras with adjustable bands and straps so you can tweak your fit. If your breasts are two sizes, Ms. Clarke recommends fitting for the larger breast for more coverage.Sign up for the Wirecutter Weekly Newsletter and get our latest recommendations every Sunday. A version of this article appears at Wirecutter.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael J. de la MercedGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________For the video game world — an industry with an estimated revenue of $25 billion in the United States last year — one of the biggest events of the year is E3, a convention where developers unveil their latest and greatest products. This year the spotlight is shining on a single blockbuster: Epic Games’s Fortnite.The biggest news to come out of E3 will almost certainly be that Fortnite will be available on Switch, the console that has made Nintendo the comeback kid of the industry. So what is all the fuss about?A Fortnite primer: For the uninitiated, it’s an online game where hundreds of players duke it out in a battle royale set on a post-apocalyptic Earth. It’s free to play, but lets players spend money on upgrades within the game.It’s big money now: Fortnite reportedly generated nearly $300 million worth of in-game sales in April.More money later: Many people think that Fortnite is becoming the next big phenomenon in e-sports. Epic certainly wants to make that happen: The developer will provide $100 million in prize money for Fortnite competitions in the 2018-2019 season. Popularity in e-sports could help the game gain more players — and make more cash, too.More on that e-sports angle from Tyler Erzberger of ESPN, who here is writing about the e-sports player Tyler “Ninja” Blevins:Although Epic Games hasn’t made any concrete plans when it comes to its wildly popular game and e-sports, one thing trumps all: viewership. Ninja’s live event at the Esports Arena in Las Vegas had over 600,000 concurrent viewers on Twitch, and when there’s that much fascination with a game — even if it was centered around the biggest name currently in video games — it can only mean good things when it comes to e-sports.A word of caution:  Nick Statt of The Verge offers a warning about Fortnite’s current dominance:Fortnite has shown the game industry a new formula. And as the events of the past few days have illustrated, it’s only a matter of time before someone inevitably comes up with another new and exciting idea that takes over the world — or at the very least does it better than the original.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them. Get the DealBook newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bytrendingMore riders are using battery-powered bikes on group cycling tours, creating their own set of tensions and hand-wringing over the artificial advantage.By Patrick ScottOn a cycling tour along the coast of southwest Sardinia, Kathleen Robinson thanked God she was riding an electric bike up the winding heights. But she wished she’d had a class beforehand on the proper etiquette.She didn’t realize that the hum of her motor would annoy some of the traditional cyclists on the tour, nor was she certain whether to spin in the back of the pack or move out front. Mrs. Robinson, 60, had enough sense to gloat tactically, like when she sailed past a friend grinding up a hill and “gave him my Queen Elizabeth wave.”“There wasn’t a problem as long as I didn’t stay next to someone who was struggling hard,” she said.Over the last two years, bike tour companies large and small have seen a spike in demand for e-bikes, and have ramped up their battery-powered fleets and the equipment needed to haul the heavier machines. The bikes now are used by 10 to 30 percent of riders on tours, operators said, and that percentage is only increasing.“E-bikes are revolutionizing bike tours,” said Maria Elena Price, co-owner of ExperiencePlus! Bicycle Tours, which offers itineraries in 20 countries.Pedaling kick starts an e-bike’s motors, which cut off at 20 miles per hour in the United States and about 15 mph in Europe. Riding an e-bike can feel like having wind at your back or a pair of bionic legs. That has opened tours to noncyclists who are less fit, people once sidelined by injury and older cyclists looking to extend their riding days. Like a marriage counselor, they unite couples who once vacationed separately or joined bike tours reluctantly.But as with many innovations in sports — think high-tech racing suits for swimmers and sticky gloves for football players — e-bikes have created their own set of tensions and hand-wringing over the artificial advantage.While most on the tours say e-bikes make for more harmonious rides with fewer stressed-out stragglers, the bikes have also given rise to incessant corny jokes — “I didn’t think that hill was that hard,” said the e-biker — and no shortage of muttered obscenities from drained riders as e-bikers nonchalantly breeze by.ExperiencePlus!, which is based in Colorado, limited e-bikes to two per trip until 2017, when requests multiplied, Ms. Price said.Guides now have an orientation script explaining that e-bikes are “not mini-mopeds,” and asking e-bikers “to respect your fellow push-bike riders as you pass them effortlessly on a climb, and for those of you on push bikes to not look ‘down’ on the e-bikers.”Rarely does a guide need to reprimand a rider, said Alain Rimondi, a tour leader for ExperiencePlus! in Italy. But when the sides are evenly mixed, he said, “it turns into an interesting social experiment.”At the start, e-bikers can feel a bit guilty switching on the motor, he said. In the first days they tend to fly past the others, especially on hills, and some even arrive early for lunch. Later, e-bikers usually hang back and the group is more compact.At the end of rides, the e-bike riders are happy and refreshed from their workout, he said, and push-bike riders often ask if they can try an e-bike.Battery-powered bikes were invented more than a century ago. But they remained a clunky oddity until this decade, taking hold on riding tours first in Europe, which has an expansive bike culture, then spreading to the United States.Norman Patry, the owner of Summer Feet Cycling in Maine, said he was too far ahead of the curve when he bought a dozen e-bikes six years ago. They gathered dust and he stopped promoting them on his website.Now, the sector is full of energy. “Everybody who is in the biking space is talking about it and thinking about it,” Mr. Patry said. “We’re past the point where they’re wondering if they’re going to do it; everybody thinks they need to do it now.” He’s replacing his fleet this year.The costs can be substantial: E-bikes typically run at least double the price of a regular hybrid touring bike, with outfitters generally paying $1,500 to $3,000 for one e-bike.One of the larger tour operators, Vermont-based VBT Bicycling and Walking Vacations, has invested more than $1 million in e-bikes, said Ray Hourani, head of global operations.In a five-year plan created in 2016, VBT projected 12 percent of bookings would be for e-bikes. It’s already at 30 percent, he said.That’s brought new challenges. Hundreds of new e-bikes required dozens of custom-made trailers to support them. And guides in Europe needed a special driver’s license to transport the heavier loads.The staff at Bicycle Adventures of Redmond, Wash., had seemingly endless debates when it tested e-bikes six years ago. According to Todd Starnes, the owner, they argued whether e-bikes were cheating, how e-bikers would be treated, if the tour makeup would be changed and more.The verdict? “In some ways, I think it makes the trip a little better,” Mr. Starnes said.For one, tours begin with less anxious questions about distance and elevation.“The person on the e-bike is less concerned at that point about whether they can keep up and more concerned about what the others think about them being on an e-bike,” Mr. Starnes said. “And they soon learn that nobody cares.”E-bikes also make it easier for guides; less sheep-dogging laggards who delay the rest of the group.“Everybody is at lunch at the same time,” Mr. Starnes said.An e-bike was the solution for Hope and Richard Wilson last fall. Mrs. Wilson had pinched a nerve in her leg, but her husband had his mind set on a foliage cycling tour in Maine with three other couples.“It made it a lot more fun when you can keep up,” Mrs. Wilson, 57, said. “You’re going by beautiful estates and beautiful landscape and you get to share it with somebody instead of lagging at the back.”Joe DeYoung, a former amateur racer who leads rides on parts of the Tour de France route, is in favor of e-bikes, but not for himself.He remembers straining up the legendary Mont Ventoux in France last year, then hearing humming and seeing two e-bikes blow past him.“About a mile from the top, where it really gets steep, they ran out of batteries and I went by them,” Mr. DeYoung, 67, said. “I got my revenge.”But as more commuters and recreational cyclists embrace e-bikes, and as technological advances continue to make them cheaper and sleeker, the influx on bike tours is likely to continue.“As the baby boomers get older, they’ll need them,” said Jim Johnson, the owner of BikeTours.com of Chattanooga. “As the millennials start needing knee-replacement surgery, they’ll need them, too.”52 PLACES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE Follow our 52 Places traveler, Sebastian Modak, on Instagram as he travels the world, and discover more Travel coverage by following us on Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our Travel Dispatch newsletter: Each week you’ll receive tips on traveling smarter, stories on hot destinations and access to photos from all over the world.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWITH INTERESTPlus, the F.D.A. moves to ban flavored tobacco, Brexit hits the skids and Amazon’s HQ2 draws critics in New York.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello! Welcome to the second edition of With Interest. Once again, we’re sending you the most important business and tech news, highlighting the essentials from the past week and what’s in store for the next. Our goal is to keep this succinct and informative.So have a read, share with a friend and settle in, hopefully, for a nice, short holiday week. Will you be one of the 54.3 million Americans leaving home for your turkey dinner this year? If so, pack snacks and bring a good book (or three): This week is expected to have the highest volume of Thanksgiving travel since 2005. Apparently, rising household incomes have everyone in a festive mood and are making us willing to overlook traffic jams and crowded airports. (Just do us all a favor and don’t be that person who tries to sneak leftover gravy through security, O.K.?)Nov. 11—17Facebook scrambled to mount a defense after The New York Times published an article on Wednesday describing how company executives ignored, then denied or obfuscated, signs that its power could be exploited — specifically, to disrupt elections, broadcast viral propaganda and inspire deadly campaigns of hate. Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, and his No. 2, Sheryl Sandberg, pleaded ignorance to the actions of a Washington-based consulting firm, Definers Public Affairs, which had orchestrated smear campaigns against Facebook’s critics, including the billionaire philanthropist George Soros. (The company fired the firm.) Mr. Zuckerberg reiterated that he would not step down. In Washington, lawmakers called for Congressional hearings and more regulatory scrutiny. Advertisers — Facebook’s real constituents — are displeased. And Facebook stock closed on Friday at a low for the year.With much fanfare and little surprise, Amazon announced on Tuesday that its second headquarters (or “HQ2”) will be split between Arlington, Va., and Long Island City in Queens. The retail giant, however, isn’t getting the warmest of New York welcomes. Yes, Amazon expects to create an estimated 25,000 jobs, and both Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo hailed it as a win. But they also promised Amazon, which generates $178 billion in annual revenue, significant state tax breaks and $1.525 billion in incentives — plus allowing a helipad for Jeff Bezos. That hasn’t sat well with some residents and local officials, who question if New York needed to sweeten the pot so much.The Food and Drug Administration on Thursday proposed a ban on menthol cigarettes and flavored cigars, its most aggressive move against the tobacco industry in over a decade. Intended to curb teen use of tobacco (flavored products are more popular with young people), the action would prohibit the sale of about a third of the roughly 250 billion cigarettes purchased annually in the United States. Meanwhile, Juul Labs — whose products account for about 70 percent of the country’s e-cigarette market — suspended sales of most of its flavored products and discontinued its social media promotions.Nov. 18—25In Britain, the challenges will continue for Prime Minister Theresa May as she attempts to woo support for her much-derided Brexit proposal. She has finally secured cabinet approval for her long-awaited plan — but critics argue that there are too many concessions to the European Union, which may prevent a necessary “aye” from Parliament. Two of her cabinet members, including her chief Brexit negotiator, quit in protest last week, and if others jump ship, Ms. May could be dumped by her own party. So much for a Brexit process that she claimed would be “smooth and orderly” (to which the House of Commons laughed uproariously).Expect fewer stampeding hordes on Black Friday this year, as more customers choose to shop on the web instead of lining up in mall parking lots at dawn. Last year, Cyber Monday was the largest day of online shopping in American history; this year, analysts predict, will break that record by 17.6 percent, reaching $7.7 billion in total sales. Post-Thanksgiving discount bonanzas are hardly confined to just one day (or even post-Thanksgiving) anymore. To get a competitive edge, Walmart and other retailers will kick off their online offers even earlier — 10 p.m. Eastern on Thanksgiving Eve, before turkey-induced lethargy sets in.Move over, football: The nation’s largest e-sports facility opens in Arlington, Tex., on Saturday. That will be a venue for people to watch other people play video games. Buoyed by slick marketing, glitzy production, multimillion-dollar prizes and the outsize personalities of many celebrity gamers, the e-sports audience is predicted to reach 380 million worldwide by the end of 2018, with a yearly revenue of $900 million. Arlington invested $10 million in the new stadium, which accommodates 2,000 people and features tricked-out reclining chairs and giant overhead screens.Forget Tesla’s woes — Elon Musk’s SpaceX held its 18th successful launch this year, shooting a Falcon 9 rocket into orbit from Florida on Thursday. Back on earth, Beyoncé severed ties with Topshop, the co-owner of her Ivy Park clothing label, after the retailer’s chairman was accused of sexual harassment. And: Do you hate your open-plan office? Here’s a handy guide to making it work. It also offers guidance on private spots to cry, when it’s that kind of day.10: The dollar value of the newest Canadian bank note, which enters circulation on Monday. The bill features Viola Desmond, a civil rights activist who was jailed for sitting in a whites-only section of a Nova Scotia movie theater in 1946.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellThe corruptions of American college sports and the status anxieties of the wealthy have achieved a spectacular commingling, as a federal indictment on Tuesday charged that N.C.A.A. coaches were paid to fix admissions for rich children at elite colleges and universities, like Georgetown, Yale and U.S.C.An entrepreneur devised this ingenious scam less than a decade ago, and it involved multiple fixes, a sort of corruption minuet. Parents with cash to burn could pay to have a test taker sit in on the SAT or ACT in place of their teenagers. And if their children’s grades too were not up to snuff, they could bribe coaches to accept them as fake tennis, soccer and water polo prodigies.The entry price for bribes often ran toward figures that meant this was no scheme for hoi polloi tennis dads. The bribe paying parents were weighted toward well-known actors, financiers and high-end designers. The ringleaders offered an additional service: If parents paid yet more money they could make children believe their test scores were real.[Read more about the actresses, business leaders and other wealthy parents charged in the college admissions scandal.] So the Henriquez family (Manuel, the father, is chairman and chief executive of a publicly traded finance company) conspired to fix their daughter’s SAT, according to federal documents specifying the charges. Then, as the family had its gaze fixed on Georgetown University, they conspired with Gordon Ernst, the school’s tennis coach, to palm off their daughter as a tennis player.She was helped to put together an application that was long on tales of struggle. I’ve played all summer. I grind out three and four hour a day workouts. I have a top 50 ranking in the USTA Junior Girls Tennis, and I’m looking forward to being part of the team and so on and on, and all of it was fabricated. At the end, the college coach simply told the admissions office: “Potential spot.”Over the following year, the Henriquez Family Trust donated $400,000 to a foundation that in turn paid Ernst $950,000 for handling the Henriquez daughter and several other faux tennis recruits.This is splendid work if your olfactory senses are not troubled by the stench of corruption.This scandal has had the salutary effect too of exploding what remains of upper middle class and wealthy self-righteousness about the grubby ways of the college sports in the basketball and football divisions. A year and a half back, F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors arrested assistant coaches and sneaker company fixers and pointed the finger at A.A.U. coaches and coaches who made payments to star players.This, we were told, was unacceptable, a corruption that must be stamped out.Unacceptable in this context meant, I suppose, a working class family and their son accepting $55,000 from an assistant coach at a large university that stands to make millions of dollars marketing their son while legally paying him nothing.The wealthy already engage in much so-called acceptable board-tilting. Rich families routinely make contributions of millions of dollars to elite colleges in hopes of ensuring that admissions offices welcomed their children’s applications. More recently, as this scandal makes clear, families tried to ensure that their sons and daughters would be psychologically evaluated in such a way that allowed them to receive many extra hours to complete high pressure admissions tests to high school and college. It was the genius of this scandal’s mastermind that he found a way to combine that dodge with a subterfuge that allowed ringers to actually take those tests.“Most of these kids don’t even have issues, but they’re getting time,” the ringleader explained to a parent. “The playing field is not fair.”The F.B.I. transcript revealed no parent who protested this accounting. Let’s read the transcript as Gordon R. Caplan, co-chairman of the top law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, talks of fixing his teenager’s test scores.“It’s just, to be honest, I’m not worried about the moral issue here,” he said.This scandal is intriguing for a final reason. There is much gnashing and grinding of teeth these days over admission to elite schools, ranging from preferential admissions for black and Latino students to whether Asian-American students constitute a too large part of the student body.This scandal reminds us that well-to-do families have long known of a back door. As the writer Saahil Desai pointed out in a fine piece for Atlantic Magazine last autumn, sports at elite colleges, from sailing to golf, tennis to lacrosse, are disproportionately filled with the children of the white wealthy. Many of these sports require that families spend upward of $1,000 per month during high school. Some 65 percent of the Ivy League athletes are white, and as the writer noted, this already constitutes a “quiet sort of affirmative action for affluent white kids.”These particular corrupt families used these doors to illegally gain entry for their well-privileged children. That is wrong, but it points to another way in which even well meaning wealthy parents can game the system.“These parents are a catalog of wealth and privilege,” U.S. Attorney Andrew Lelling said Tuesday. “This case is about the widening corruption of elite college admissions.”For once, he might have added, the coaches are but corrupt handmaids.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund LeeGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Amazon is reportedly interested in buying nearly two dozen regional sports networks. That would be a bold gamble on the future of how viewers consume sports content.The e-commerce giant is said to have bid for the 22 regional sports networks that 21st Century Fox is offloading as part of its sale to the Walt Disney Company, CNBC reported, citing unnamed sources. Together, the networks air the games of 44 teams in the N.B.A., Major League Baseball and the N.H.L. An earlier report by Reuters that also cited unnamed sources suggested that the networks could be valued at over $20 billion, which would make the purchase Amazon’s biggest deal ever.But what does Amazon want with 22 sports networks?The simplified logic runs like this: At a time when pay TV is in decline, sports content drives viewership across platforms. Owning rights to big franchises would help Amazon market its Prime program (which costs $119 a year), especially if that membership included access to those games. That, in turn, could add more revenue, as Prime members tend to buy more on Amazon.Growth in the number of Amazon Prime members in the United States has slowed recently. It hit 97 million members this year, up from about 90 million last year, according to an estimate from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners. A pickup in membership growth would be welcome.Amazon has some experience with sports broadcasts. It streams “Thursday Night Football” on Prime, for which it paid $130 million for two years. But $20 billion is a big price tag. So why would Amazon pay up for a business in which it has little experience? The answer is complicated.Regional sports networks are effectively the middlemen of sports rights. They are paid by cable and satellite companies that carry the network, but the network also has to pay teams for rights to broadcast their games. The problem is that cable and satellite companies want to pay less to carry these networks, because fewer people are paying for television these days, while sports teams are looking to receive higher fees.There are bargaining tools that some companies could employ to make owning the middlemen worthwhile. A big media company, like Fox, could bundle the regional sports network with other channels, like Fox News, to get higher rates, making up for the corresponding increase in rights fees. Local TV station owners, like Sinclair or Tegna, both of which are also interested in Fox’s regional sports channels, could use a similar tactic, by bundling local news broadcasts with a regional sports network.But Amazon doesn’t have such leverage, which may not matter.One theory is Amazon could take the games off the cable and satellite systems and make them exclusively available to Prime members. There are two problems with that idea. First, Fox has already negotiated agreements for its 22 regional sports networks with most of the major pay-TV carriers. Those contracts will have to be honored for the next three to five years. Second, even after those contracts run out, team owners may not want to limit the visibility of their games to a single online service, even — or, perhaps, especially — if it’s Amazon.Another option would be for Amazon to make games available to Prime subscribers in addition to the local cable system. That way team owners don’t lose out on audience. But the cable operators are sure to balk. They likely don’t want to carry a regional sports network that a Prime subscriber could get for less than $10 a month. And if the pay-TV operators refused to carry the networks, Amazon would face owners unhappy about their teams’ lack of visibility.So why would Amazon want to spend so much for a business that could come undone in the next few years? The obvious answer is that Amazon expects — or plans to create — disruption.Streaming could become the dominant media business in the next few years, which could mean that streaming companies become the leading sports broadcasters if they line up the right deals. (Amazon could aim to win exclusive rights for Monday and Sunday N.F.L. games when they come up for renewal around 2021.) And while that may be risky, Amazon does know a thing or two about how to dominate a business. Ask anyone.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.AdvertisementChina DailyAdvertisementShareChinese innovation to fore as soaring sector blasts fearlessly into the future.The rise of e-sports continues inexorably, with China positioned firmly at the vanguard of the global gaming revolution.Indeed, the sector is drawing such staggering viewing figures that organizers of traditional sporting events would be well advised to avoid schedule clashes with major e-sports competitions.The final of the League of Legends World Championship on Nov. 3 in Incheon, South Korea, where China’s Invictus Gaming defeated European club Fnatic 3-0 to win the title, became the hottest topic on Chinese social media.News and discussion of the victory was viewed over 10 billion times on Weibo that evening, while a snapshot of the Twitter-like platform’s top-50 trending topics showed 12 were related to the final.It was the first time a team from China’s League of Legends Pro League has won the title in the event’s eight-year history, prompting emotional celebrations on stage.The financial implications of the e-sports explosion are enormous.The sector’s market value in China reached 5 billion yuan ($750 million) in 2017, according to the China E-sports Development Report, published by tech giant Tencent. It is expected to hit 8.48 billion yuan this year and 20 billion yuan ($3 billion) by 2020.Last year, there were 250 million Chinese gamers and fans － a figure that is projected to rise to 300 million by 2020.In 2016, China’s e-sports income growth rate hit 56 percent, 4 percentage points higher than the global average.Meanwhile, e-sports is becoming an increasingly attractive career choice.There are an estimated 260,000 vacancies in the industry here, according to a report published by the Communist Youth League of China in May.The demand, though, is not so much for gamers but for designers, coaches, tournament managers and broadcasters.According to Tencent’s findings, around a third of e-sports users in China would like to work in the industry, while about a quarter of parent players would support their children in finding employment in the sector.The survey showed that jobs in broadcasting, promotion and game design were all more popular choices than becoming a pro gamer － only about a fifth of respondents chose the latter.E-sports continues to quickly encroach on the mainstream, with its inclusion at this summer’s Asian Games in Indonesia a resounding success.China returned from Jakarta with two golds (in League of Legends and Arena of Valor) and a silver (in Clash Royale) from the six demonstration events to thrill fans back home.The very real prospect of e-sports becoming an official medal event for the 2022 Asiad in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, is one that has organizers, sponsors and fans licking their lips.Olympic inclusion also appears likely. The International Olympic Committee continues to hint that’s the case, with IOC president Thomas Bach this summer vowing to explore ways to work together.“E-sports is no longer a subculture of kids playing games in basements,” said Kenneth Fok, president of the Asian Electronic Sports Federation.“It is true sport, practiced in a professional, systematic manner. And our athletes require the same physical and mental capacity as athletes in traditional sports.“Our agenda is to push the Olympic agenda. This is our work. This is our passion, this is what drives us. When? I don’t know, and I do not want to predict. It’s a very good first step, and we will take down obstacles, step by step.” Nowadays, e-sports is a thoroughly professional industry, with an increasing focus on delivering the best experience for fans.China’s League of Legends Pro League (LPL), for example, has been using cutting-edge technology, such as augmented reality (AR), to enhance its live broadcasts.The figures speak for themselves, with LPL games viewed over seven billion times during the first half of this year.And, borrowing an idea from the traditional sporting world, the LPL is in the process of introducing a home-and-away system.So far, five of the 14 clubs have been assigned a home city, with stadiums often full to capacity and local authorities welcoming the squads with open arms.The arrival of Team WE to Xi’an, Shaanxi province, was marked by an elaborate ceremony staged by the local government, which offers numerous preferential policies to e-sports clubs and companies.“We gained the full support of many cities,” said Joses Zhu, a senior manager at Interactive Entertainment Group of Tencent, which owns the LPL.“Now, if there are matches in those home cities, the seat-occupancy rate can easily reach 90 percent.“The number is usually 100 percent in Chengdu, Sichuan province, which is home to the OMG club.“Just like the NBA, when you speak of Los Angeles, people think of the Lakers. We want the same. We want e-sports to be the calling card of a city.” As clubs rise, so do the players, whose popularity can fluctuate wildly based on their performances.World champion Royal Never Give Up (RNG) is arguably China’s most star-studded squad, spearheaded by hotshot Jian Zihao, aka Uzi.After being revered for helping Team China to gold at the Asian Games and RNG to a breakthrough victory at the League of Legends Mid-Season Invitational in Paris in May, Jian is now being panned on social media because of RNG’s quarterfinal exit at the worlds in South Korea.Meanwhile, RNG is endeavoring to win more hearts through its charity work, with the latest beneficiaries poverty-stricken kids in an impoverished mountain region in Guizhou province thanks to an innovative initiative promoting healthy living.The club challenged fans to run and use a smartphone app to map a route that looks like the letter ‘R’.In turn, RNG donated books to disadvantaged students, with 20,000 texts and 50 bookshelves sent to schools in the area.The next plan is to establish permanent donation centers in universities, with several already earmarked for Beijing.“In some of our charity activities we only had limited staff, but many fans volunteered to help us finish all the work,” said Li Jieming, the club’s chief marketing officer.“The players cannot attend every charity event because of their busy schedules, so we were so touched that so many fans supported us.”Anecdotal evidence like that goes some way to debunking the stereotype of gamers as being withdrawn and antisocial.Whatever the world thinks, however, it’s certain that e-sports is here to stay. By Shi Futian  The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post’s creation.AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyIn a recognition of the popularity of e-sports on college campuses, most Big Ten universities will field teams in the multiplayer online game League of Legends and compete in a style resembling conference play, in a partnership with the Big Ten Network.Besides streaming competitions on the internet, the Big Ten Network will broadcast select games, including the championship in late March, weekly on its cable network, which is available to more than 60 million households nationally.Riot Games, League of Legends’ creator and publisher, and the Big Ten Network — which is owned by Fox and the Big Ten Conference — announced the partnership Thursday morning in a joint statement. The Big Ten does not sponsor e-sports, which are not official N.C.A.A. sports.In the first broadcast, on Jan. 30, teams from the Big Ten’s two newest members, Rutgers and Maryland, will face off, according to a Big Ten Network spokesman.“From an e-sports perspective, this is a first-of-its-kind event,” said Michael Sherman, head of Riot’s competitive collegiate program.The Pacific-12 has expressed interest in e-sports, and several individual colleges have gone further, with the University of California, Irvine, constructing a dedicated e-sports space in its student union and Robert Morris University Illinois, in Chicago, offering athletic scholarships to players.A number of popular games, including Madden-brand football video games, fall under the e-sports rubric. In League of Legends, two teams of five — composed of a set of stock characters seemingly inspired by fantasy novels — try to destroy a glowing object, called a nexus, on their opponent’s side.In the Big Ten Network’s League of Legends season, teams in the Big Ten’s East and West divisions will play each other in best-of-three, round-robin competitions, and the top four from each division will then enter a single-elimination bracket. (The two Big Ten universities not participating this year, Nebraska and Penn State, are in different divisions. The Big Ten has 14 members.)While lacking the mainstream visibility of traditional college sports, e-sports are wildly popular, even as spectator sports, among young people of the type sought after by both colleges and advertisers. Professional gaming contests frequently sell out major arenas, including Madison Square Garden, and several top European soccer clubs have signed e-sports players as brand ambassadors.Riot already runs a League of Legends College Championship, and the champion crowned by the Big Ten Network season will compete in the final rounds of that annual event.AdvertisementAdvertisementE. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets. She previously worked on the editorial staff at The New Yorker and as a national features writer at Al Jazeera America.Before pursuing a career in journalism, Ms. Kim was an attorney at the Community Development Project of the Urban Justice Center, the inaugural fellow at the Ms. Foundation for Women and a judicial clerk to Janet Bond Arterton of the U.S. District Court of Connecticut. She has taught undergraduate courses at the Cooper Union, Yale University and the City University of New York. The foreign policy establishment was relieved at the sudden end to the North Korean summit. But Koreans hoping for peace were crushed.By E. TAMMY KIMCities should treat rising rents like pollution and tax the companies that cause it.By E. TAMMY KIMWhen I pick up needle and thread, I join a long line of women who have turned the domestic arts into political expression. By E. TAMMY KIMPresident Moon Jae-in may be the last chance for bringing Trump and Kim Jong-un together.By E. TAMMY KIMUber and other companies should end forced arbitration in all cases, not just sexual harassment claims.By E. TAMMY KIMThe foreign policy establishment was relieved at the sudden end to the North Korean summit. But Koreans hoping for peace were crushed.By E. TAMMY KIMCities should treat rising rents like pollution and tax the companies that cause it.By E. TAMMY KIMWhen I pick up needle and thread, I join a long line of women who have turned the domestic arts into political expression. By E. TAMMY KIMPresident Moon Jae-in may be the last chance for bringing Trump and Kim Jong-un together.By E. TAMMY KIMUber and other companies should end forced arbitration in all cases, not just sexual harassment claims.By E. TAMMY KIMGo to Home Page »China DailyAdvertisementShareCity leads way as local governments reap benefits of embracing gaming.The value of China’s fast-growing e-sports industry is attracting the favor of the nation’s local governments, with many embracing gaming with open arms.Now Shanghai, already a tournament hub and home to numerous e-sports organizations, is leveling up as it establishes itself as a major center for the sector.Typical of Shanghai’s expansion is a new deal announced on Jan. 12 that makes the city’s Oriental Sports Center the primary host stadium for Tencent E-sports tournaments.Kicking off the partnership in style, Tencent’s homegrown hit Honor of Kings held the final of its Champion Cup winter season at the venue on Jan. 13, watched by about 15,000 spectators.“The e-sports industry now has a great development opportunity in China, and Shanghai has a very specific aim of becoming an international e-sports center,” said Fan Jianlin, chairman of Shanghai Juss Sports Development (Group) Co. Ltd., which owns the stadium.“We are experienced in organizing traditional sports events such as tennis’ ATP Shanghai Masters and Formula One’s Chinese Grand Prix. We are also China’s leader in athletics arenas. The cooperation with Tencent is a milestone for China’s e-sports development.“The center was built a decade ago, and we have to upgrade its internet and broadband infrastructure to meet the extremely high requirements of e-sports tournaments. It’s a great chance for us to upgrade to a smart stadium.”Tencent hopes the Oriental Sports Center can set the standard for the industry.“We have been organizing e-sports tournaments for over a decade and we have been to many stadiums in China,” said Mars Hou, general manager of Tencent’s interactive entertainment marketing department.“It’s necessary to set a standard in the industry. As Shanghai aims to become China’s e-sports center, the city boasts great infrastructure.“The city and the industry both need a flagship e-sports stadium that can be an example to others that want to welcome e-sports. Before this, we just rented the stadium － now we can have deeper cooperation.”Tencent E-sports unveiled plans to nurture ties with local governments to help establish e-sports as a calling card for their areas in 2018.Central to the plan are Honor of Kings, a title that boasts around 200 million registered users, and the King Pro League (KPL), China’s largest mobile e-sports competition.Although broadcasts of KPL tournaments rack up billions of views online each season, Shanghai has been the only place to go to watch the action live and up close.In 2018 the league split into eastern and western conferences, with a view to visiting more cities. Chengdu in Sichuan province was the first new stop, and more are in the pipeline.“The first requirement to select a new host city for our competitions is that it should have a big population of Honor of Kings gamers,” said Zhang Yijia, president of the KPL.“Secondly, we have to consider the local economy, including the city’s infrastructure and the local government’s preferential policies.“Finally, we require clubs to have a deep bond with a city and local fans.“I can’t reveal the list, but in the future there will be more host cities.”Honor of Kings has also shown its potential to go global after its international version was included as a demonstration event in last summer’s Asian Games in Jakarta, where the Chinese squad won gold.Tencent marketing supremo Mars said there were many teething problems in Indonesia, so the company is keen to learn from Juss Sports’ logistical expertise.“Fans could only see the exciting matches and the gold we won, but in Jakarta we encountered many problems we never expected. It was no easy job to hold a continental competition,” said Mars.“Problems such as the players’ urine tests, accommodation and especially their commute from the hotel to the stadium were very new to us in the e-sports sector. The cooperation with Juss presents a great chance for us to learn about event organization from traditional sports.”Honor of Kings’ international version differs greatly from the original, which has a much larger user base and more pronounced Chinese cultural elements.In a bid to expand the league further, Tencent is pushing the domestic version of the game more strongly in foreign markets.In 2018, the KPL established a South Korean league called KRKPL, whose most recent winner, KZ, competed in Shanghai.“E-sports can be a bridge of cultural communication and we want Honor of Kings to promote Chinese culture and history,” said Zhang.“We built the first foreign league, the KRKPL, which now has eight teams. We established the Champion Cup, an international tournament based on the domestic version, to allow foreigners to compete with China’s KPL teams.“Now we are working on increasing the competitiveness of our foreign league. To improve the new teams, we plan to send domestic talents and coaches to improve them. In the mobile e-sports sector, without a doubt the KPL is now the most advanced in the world.”Shi FutianThe news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post’s creation.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHONG KONG — Chinese game-streaming company Huya Inc, backed by Tencent Holdings Ltd, has launched a follow-on share offering of about $343 million to raise funds for investment in its content and e-sports partners.Huya, which went public last year in New York, is part of a growing trend of Chinese tech companies returning to capital markets for cash soon after their initial public offering (IPO).Huya is selling 13.6 million primary shares, the game-streaming firm company said in a stock exchange filing. At the same time, social media platform YY Inc is selling 4.8 million of Huya shares, the filing showed.Based on its closing price of $25.23 on Monday, the combined sale could raise as much as $464 million.There is an over-allotment - or greenshoe option - of up to 15 percent for Huya's share sale, meaning the firm could raise as much as $394 million if exercised. There is likewise a 15 percent over-allotment for YY's stake sale.Huya is China's biggest live-streaming game platform, according to the offering prospectus, competing with Douyu which plans to go public in New York this year.China boasts the world's largest gamer base in e-sports with about 266 million gamers in 2018, the prospectus showed.Huya's shares have risen about 65 percent since the firm's IPO in May, in which it raised $180 million.Other companies from the 2018 IPO cohort returning for more funds include electric vehicle maker NIO Inc, video streaming company iQIYI Inc, e-commerce firm Pinduoduo Inc and video platform Bilibili Inc.Bankers are pinning their hopes for 2019 on additional capital raising through follow-on offerings or convertible bonds as the crop of Chinese companies looking to go public thins out after a blockbuster 2018 in terms of IPOs.Many of the companies that went public in 2018 raised less money than they had hoped for - partly due to global market jitters and partly because investors pushed back against lofty valuations - which will drive follow-on capital raising.Huya will price its follow-on offering after New York markets close on Tuesday.Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and Jefferies are joint bookrunners for the deal. (Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Christopher Cushing)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byletterNew York City health officials warn of the dangers.To the Editor:Re “E-Cigarettes Offer Higher Success Rate in Quitting Smoking, Study Says” (news article, Jan. 31):While this study contributes to literature on the potential value of e-cigarettes as smoking-cessation devices, it does not address the public health threat of flavored e-cigarettes marketed toward youths.In New York City, 17 percent of public high school students reported using e-cigarettes versus only 2 percent of adults. E-cigarettes, more often than not, contain nicotine, which is extremely addictive, and adolescents may be more susceptible to developing nicotine dependence than adults. Nicotine can change the chemistry of the teenage brain; it may affect learning, by worsening memory and concentration. More research is needed, particularly on the long-term health effects of e-cigarettes.We also need policies that address the immediate and established threat to youths, and the New York City Council’s proposed restriction on the sale of flavored e-cigarettes is a critical first step.Herminia PalacioOxiris BarbotNew YorkDr. Palacio is New York City’s deputy mayor for health and human services, and Dr. Barbot is the city’s health commissioner.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthBy Jane E. BrodyFew parents enroll their children in organized sports with the expectation that they will get injured. Yet children often do get hurt, and sometimes those injuries can sideline young athletes for months or an entire season and may sour them on participating in the future. The effects of sports injuries may even linger into adulthood.“Injuries are often considered an inevitable part of sports. However, like other injuries, sports injuries are potentially preventable,” according to Dr. Terry A. Adirim, a sports medicine expert who is now a health affairs specialist for the Department of Defense, and Dr. Tina L. Cheng, director of pediatrics at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.Reducing the risk of injury, they wrote in the journal Sports Medicine, requires taking into account the physical and physiological differences between children and adults, differences that can leave youngsters more vulnerable to injury. Children have a larger surface area and bigger heads relative to their body size; their growing cartilage is more susceptible to stresses; and most lack “the complex motor skills needed for certain sports until after puberty.”In a guide to safety for young athletes, the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons points out that “children’s bones, muscles, tendons and ligaments are still growing,” which makes them more susceptible to injury. Growth plates, the cartilage at the end of long bones where bone growth occurs, are especially susceptible to injury that could disrupt normal growth.“A twisted ankle that might result in a sprain in an adult, could result in a more serious growth plate fracture in a young athlete,” the organization emphasized. Plus, children lack an adult’s level of coordination, strength and stamina.Many parents want their children to reap the benefits of sports participation. In addition to socializing with their peers and enhancing self-esteem, sports participation fosters a child’s overall health and bone density and reduces the risk of overweight, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, depression, risk-taking behavior and teen pregnancy, noted Dr. Cynthia Bella, pediatric orthopedist at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine, and co-author of an editorial on youth sports injury prevention in the British Journal of Sports Medicine.Thus, the goal should be to take whatever measures one can to avoid athletic injuries — or at least minimize their severity — and keep kids in the game. First and foremost, that means parents and coaches must create an atmosphere of healthy competition, with an emphasis on cooperation, self-confidence and good clean fun rather than just winning. Children need to learn how to deal with defeat as well as victory.Second, all young athletes should strive to be in good physical condition for their chosen sports. That means starting with a pre-participation sports physical exam that could reveal potential problems, then following a guided conditioning program that entails exercises appropriate for the chosen sports.Every child should know and obey the rules of the game and always use proper protective gear, like shin guards for soccer, a hard-shell helmet when batting, and a helmet and body padding for ice hockey. An ill-fitting helmet is an injury waiting to happen.Games should start with a warm-up to avoid damage to “cold” tissues. Adequate rest beforehand is always important — tired players don’t think clearly or play well — and good hydration is essential throughout the game.I should also mention the importance of good nutrition. Children who are deficient in vitamin D, for example, are 3.7 times more likely than those with normal levels of the vitamin to sustain a fracture that requires operative repair, Dr. Pooya Hosseinzadeh, pediatric orthopedist at Washington University, reported at a recent meeting of orthopedic surgeons. In her study of 100 youngsters with forearm fractures resulting from low impact (like falling from a standing height), 49 percent were vitamin D deficient and half of those required surgery.In an interview, Dr. Hosseinzadeh said, “Children are not getting out into the sunshine enough nowadays, and they’re not consuming enough seafood and fortified milk,” the main dietary sources of vitamin D. When vitamin D levels are low, calcium absorption is impaired and the body takes the mineral from one’s bones to maintain a proper blood level. “The bones get weaker and break more easily,” she said.Dr. Elizabeth Matzkin, orthopedic surgeon and chief of Women’s Sports Medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, also emphasized the importance of eating enough. “Energy going in should be adequate for the amount going out,” she said, “If not, bone health can suffer and bone stress injuries can result. You can only build one’s bone bank to age 25. We don’t want kids starting out with too little in the bank.”Probably the most common injuries among young athletes result from overuse, which causes undue stress on certain body parts, like the tissues in a Little Leaguer’s elbow. Overuse injuries result when a child continually uses the same muscle groups and applies the same stresses to a specific body part, resulting in muscle imbalances and inadequate time for repair. Common overuse injuries include shin splints and Achilles tendinitis.To avoid such injuries, Dr. Matzkin recommends “diversification — playing multiple sports and different positions so they’re not doing the same motions with their bodies over and over again.” She and other experts recommend that children under the age of 16 not practice a given sport for more hours a week than their age in years. Children who play the same sport on more than one team in a given season are at increased risk for injury. Likewise for those who play and train for the same sport all year, with no downtime to allow overstressed tissues to recover and without other activities that feature different parts of the body.Participating in different sports helps youngsters develop “good biomechanics,” which reduces injury risk, Dr. Matzkin said.Children should never be encouraged to play through pain, nor should persistent pain be ignored, experts insist. “Whether an injury is acute or due to overuse, a child who develops a symptom that persists or that affects his or her athletic performance should be examined by a doctor,” the orthopedics organization states. “A child should never be allowed to ‘work through the pain.’”Accurate diagnosis of a young athlete’s pain may require orthopedic expertise because pain from a repetitive motion injury may develop somewhere in the body other than the site of the injury. Knee pain, for example, could result from injury to the hip.This is the second of two columns on youth sports safety.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jeremy EngleSports is not just about X’s and O’s or wins and losses; it’s also about ethics and economics, race and gender, science and technology, joy and camaraderie, and nearly everything in between. Sports allows us to admire the awesomeness of the human body and the artistry of athletes in action, and to explore stories of grit and resilience and our need for heroes and villains.While it might not be immediately obvious to all teachers, particularly those who aren’t die-hard fans, sports is also an endless source of inspiration for making arguments and throwing down facts.In this lesson, we explore how to use the world of sports to help students effectively develop evidence-based arguments. We suggest three categories for practicing the skill in sports contexts — from making a case for the G.O.A.T. to taking on current sports-world controversies to proposing rule changes to make a sport or tournament better. We end the lesson with a few strategies for bringing debate and argument writing alive in the classroom.Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear your ideas. Post a comment or write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com._________Who is the G.O.A.T.?No, not those cute animals with the horns and the beard. The Greatest of All Time.No matter how seemingly impossible it is to determine the G.O.A.T., it is a perennial favorite argument for sports fans and is debated regularly in The New York Times.The G.O.A.T. argument comes in many forms: Best Game, Best Season, Best Coach, Best Team, Greatest Upset, Greatest Olympian. Even best and worst sports cities.But how do you decide: Is it the accomplishments on the playing field or is it a player’s greater impact beyond his or her sport? How do you compare one era to another?Is Tom Brady the greatest football player of all time? Who would you pick, Michael Jordan or LeBron James? Is Serena Williams the greatest athlete of all time? Or is it Muhammad Ali?Jesse Owens won four gold medals in the Munich Olympics in 1936, broke or equaled nine Olympic records, also set three world records and single-handedly shattered Adolf Hitler’s myth of Aryan superiority; yet his record mark of 10.3 seconds in the 100 meters would today be 21 feet behind Usain Bolt’s record of 9.58. Would it be more fair to incorporate broader cultural accomplishments? Or should the Greatest of All Time focus solely on the numbers?Student Challenge: Make your case for the G.O.A.T.First, ask your students to decide which aspect of the G.O.A.T. debate they would like to tackle: greatest play, season, game, coach, athlete, et cetera.Next, they should define their criteria for greatness: Does greatest mean the player you want to be up at bat in the seventh game of the World Series, two outs in the bottom of the ninth? Is it instead the number of an athlete’s victories? His or her longevity? The relative strength of the competition? The athlete’s impact within, as well as beyond, the sport?Advance Evidence-Based Arguments and Tackle Counterarguments Use a model text or two to help students move from mere assertion or opinion to rigorous, evidence-based argument. Here are a few excerpts to highlight how authors both support claims with evidence and anticipate counterarguments:In “Is Russell Westbrook’s Season the Best Ever? Some Apples and Oranges to Pick From,” Jeré Longman supports his claims with evidence using sports statistics:Westbrook’s season, while awesome, is not the greatest in N.B.A. history. That belongs to none other than Wilt Chamberlain in 1961-62 with the Philadelphia Warriors. Chamberlain averaged 50.4 points and 25.7 rebounds that season and (this may be the greatest stat in all of sports) 48.5 minutes played per game. Regulation games last 48 minutes, but the Warriors played seven games that extended for at least one period of overtime. During that 80-game regular season, Chamberlain played 3,882 of Philadelphia’s possible 3,890 minutes.On March 2, 1962, Chamberlain famously scored 100 points against the Knicks, but that was only the culmination of a four-game stretch in which he scored 67, 65 and 61 points in the three previous games, according to basketball-reference.com. All told, he scored at least 60 points 15 times that season, including a stunning performance on Dec. 8, 1961, against the Lakers, in which Chamberlain delivered 78 points and 43 rebounds.In “It’s Time to Appreciate Serena Williams’s Greatness,” Christopher Clarey anticipates counterarguments:In light of that and Williams’s enduring excellence, there is momentum building behind the concept of deeming her the greatest player ever. It is a subjective process, one in which it is always tempting to give too much weight to the great champion in front of you, the one whose victory under pressure is freshest in your mind.What is beyond dispute is that Williams has not been nearly as consistent in regular tour events during her career as players like Navratilova, Chris Evert and Graf.Navratilova won 167 singles titles as well as 177 doubles titles in an era when doubles was much more prestigious than now. Evert won 154 singles titles. Graf, who did not play as long as Williams has played, won 107. Williams, for the moment, has 67, which puts her in a tie for sixth on the career list with Billie Jean King. …But if “greatest” means the player who would have beaten all the rest at their peaks, it is hard not to feel a strong pull in Williams’s direction. Her power serving and her serving under pressure are weapons that no other great player has possessed to the same degree. Modern equipment is certainly a factor, but she is also complete off the ground and, guided by her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, improving her volleys, overheads and tactical variations.Together, the class might analyze how these authors develop their case for G.O.A.T., for example, by defining their terms for greatness, providing evidence to support claims and anticipating and then considering potential counterclaims.Here are additional resources, from The Times, and elsewhere, that can provide alternative mentor texts:The Fine Line: What Makes Simone Biles the World’s Best Gymnast Eliud Kipchoge Is the Greatest Marathoner, Ever On Team of All-Time Greats, Pelé Shines Brightest Golden State Warriors Are Closing In on History Lindsey Vonn to Retire: Vonn Leaves as the Greatest Women’s Skier in History G.O.A.T. Athletes: The Definitive List | Complex.com Babe Didrikson, the Greatest Female Athlete of All Time? | The Guardian Major League Baseball: The Case for Babe Ruth as the Best Ever | Bleacher Report Tom Brady Has Surpassed Joe Montana as the G.O.A.T. | ESPN’s First Take (Video) LeBron James Has Already Passed Michael Jordan as Greatest Player | Fox Sports - Undisputed (Video)Ultimately, there is no right answer to the G.O.A.T. question. To some, Jesse Owens will always be the G.O.A.T. for his cultural impact; for others, Bill Russell’s 11 N.B.A. championships will trump all other measures. But that is the beauty of the debate. And in the end, it’s about the power of the argument to persuade others — at least for that day — who is the Greatest of All Time._________Should athletes who use steroids be barred from professional sports? Should players have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Should college athletes be paid?These are just a few of the countless debates that come and go in the world of sports. Any one of them is ripe for students to investigate and debate to practice their inquiry and argument skills.In this section we present three sports-related case studies to demonstrate how students can develop good research questions, assert a strong claim and study mentor texts as a way to improve their debate writing and speaking skills. And these three topics are just the tip of the iceberg; at the end of the section, we suggest another 11 current issues in sports for students to explore. And we’re confident your students would have plenty more topics to add to our list.Case Study #1. Sports and ConcussionsSports are often associated with heroism — endurance, toughness, and valor. It has long been assumed that an athlete will have to make physical sacrifices to achieve greatness. But the sacrifice is now being questioned because of changes in our understanding of the impact sports can have on our bodies and minds.The brain trauma sustained in football and other contact sports is now linked to long-term cognitive impairment, including memory loss, confusion, depression and dementia. Although media coverage of concussions has focused on tackle football, these health issues are evident in many other sports like hockey, soccer, basketball, Nascar, skiing, snowboarding and BMX freestyle, among others.The debate is not merely academic; it is causing significant changes to our understanding of athletes and athletics and is threatening the future viability of some of the world’s most popular sports.Develop Winning QuestionsResearch generally begins with asking good questions. Even a topic as seemingly straight forward as sports-related concussions has many layers of complexity. So students should begin their research by asking themselves: What about this topic interests me most? What do I want to learn more about?For example, if they want to start with the science, they might generate questions like: What is the impact of a single concussion? What is the long-term impact of brain trauma? What is the degenerative brain disease C.T.E.? And what is the impact of concussions on youths?Or they may instead decide to investigate the role equipment plays, look into possible reforms or consider ethical implications. If they decide to go in any of these directions, they might come up with questions like: How do concussions affect athletes’ short- and long-term physical and mental health? How does this affect the people around them? What is the role of equipment in brain trauma? Can equipment reduce concussions or does it give players a false sense of security, therefore making the problem worse? Should parents let their children play football? Or are we obsessing about the dangers? Should we as fans still watch football?No matter what question or questions students start with, research inevitably leads to asking more questions.Some other relevant resources: 110 N.F.L. Brains. All But One Had C.T.E. A Football Player’s Descent Into Pain and Paranoia Anatomy of a Traditional Football Helmet Concussions Can Occur in All Youth SportsCanadian Football’s Big Steps to Reduce Hits, a Contrast to the N.F.L.Case Study #2. National Anthem ProtestsPolitical activism and protests by athletes are nothing new. Muhammad Ali publicly criticized the Vietnam War. John Carlos and Tommie Smith raised fists during a medal ceremony at the 1968 Olympics. Following the fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and the other members of the Miami Heat posted a photo of themselves wearing hooded sweatshirts in his memory. But perhaps no act of political protest today is more polarizing than the stance by Colin Kaepernick to kneel during the national anthem at N.F.L. games.If students want to argue a position related to recent national anthem protests, they should start by asking a question. For example, should athletes have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Or are athletes who protest being patriotic or unpatriotic? As students do research, they will gather evidence that will support a position. Once they find enough compelling evidence, they are ready to assert a claim (or thesis or resolution).Assert a Claim In small groups or as a whole class, students can debate one or more claims that were generated by students — or the teacher. After they have the opportunity to test their arguments with their peers and hear other points of view, they can write up their argument as an essay or editorial.Below are a few possible resolutions that students can affirm or negate, with related articles below.Resolution 1: The N.F.L. has the right to demand that its players stand during the national anthem.Surprise! The N.F.L. National Anthem Problem Is Not Going Away. N.F.L. Anthem Policy Bound to Please Only the N.F.L. Trump Supports N.F.L.’s New National Anthem Policy Dolphins Policy Says Players Could Be Suspended for Anthem ProtestsResolution 2: Colin Kaepernick is a hero.Why Kaepernick Takes the Knee This Time, Colin Kaepernick Takes a Stand by Kneeling The Awakening of Colin Kaepernick The Deafening Silence of Colin Kaepernick Colin Kaepernick’s Nike Campaign Keeps N.F.L. Anthem Kneeling in SpotlightResolution 3: Schools have the right to suspend student-athletes who protest during their games.Protest Started by Colin Kaepernick Spreads to High School Students High School Students Explain Why They Protest Anthems and Pledges High Schools Threaten to Punish Students Who Kneel During Anthem High School Students Kicked Off Football Team After Protesting During National AnthemResolution 4: Athletes who are politically active are a distraction to their teams and should stick to competing in their sport.In 2017, Many Athletes Found Their Voices Should Athletes Stick to Sports? Colin Kaepernick and the Myth of the ‘Good’ ProtestCase Study #3. Performance-Enhancing DrugsCheating has always existed in sports: spitballs in baseball; weighted gloves in boxing; stealing another team’s signs. Players are always looking for an edge, but perhaps none is more contentious and troubling than the edge that performance-enhancing drugs provide — steroids, human growth hormone, blood doping.Some of sports’ most celebrated athletes have been caught using PEDs: for example, the cyclist Lance Armstrong, the gold-medal runner Marion Jones, the tennis champion Maria Sharapova and the Ultimate Fighting Championship star Jon Jones. In 2018, the entire Russian Winter Olympic team was barred from competing for doping violations.Let’s say students have already generated their research questions related to the topic of performance-enhancing drugs in sports, they have done initial research, and they have asserted a claim they plan to defend in writing. What else can they do before they start typing to get an edge?Study the ProsAnalyzing mentor texts can help students identify how writers build arguments using claims, reasons and supporting details, and they can help students see how to develop effective counterarguments as well.Here are excerpts from two Opinion essays offering opposing viewpoints to the question: Should known steroid users be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame?In “Keep Rose, Bond and Clemens Out of the Baseball Hall of Fame,” Bijan C. Bayne makes the case for why Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, two statistical heavyweights in the sport, should not be inducted into the Hall of Fame:Bonds and Clemens … sealed their own Hall of Fame fates.Bonds has said he didn’t know what was in ointments and injections he received — the “clear” and the “cream” — or that they contained steroids. Bonds insults our intelligence by feigning ignorance. World-class athletes know how many grams of protein are in a six ounce portion of salmon. Why would he use these substances without knowing their purpose?While some might say that performance-enhancing drugs don’t enhance the hand-eye coordination that made him great even before he seems to have started using them, they do produce stronger, larger muscles that facilitate quicker reaction times. Larger muscles also increase hitting power. And these drugs allow for faster recovery times after the fatigue of weight training and aid athletic endurance.Zev Chafets argues the other side in “Let Steroids Into the Hall of Fame”:Purists say that steroids alter the game. But since the Hall opened its doors, baseball has never stopped changing. Batters now wear body padding and helmets. The pitcher’s mound has risen and fallen. Bats have more pop. Night games affect visibility. Players stay in shape in the off-season. Expansion has altered the game’s geography. And its demography has changed beyond recognition. Babe Ruth never faced a black pitcher. As Chris Rock put it, Ruth’s record consisted of “714 affirmative-action home runs.” This doesn’t diminish Ruth’s accomplishment, but it puts it into context.After reading these different points of view, students can brainstorm a list of strengths and weaknesses in each article and in each writer’s argument. Which argument is more effective? Convincing? Memorable? What elements are fact versus opinion? When is opinion most appropriate in an argument? Are there any aspects of either article that seem weak? Why? What might make these arguments stronger?Together, the class can create a list of dos and don’ts for building an argument. For example, “DO: support your ideas with relevant statistics.” Or, “DON’T: assume your reader will agree with your viewpoint.”For students researching this topic, here are just a few of the many related resources in The Times and elsewhere:Some other relevant resourcesShould Doping Be Allowed? Testing Levels the Playing Field How to Fight Doping in Sports Would legal doping level playing field? A Voice of Skepticism on the Impact of Steroids There Are No Sound Moral Arguments Against Performance-Enhancing Drugs Performance-enhancing drugs: Know the risks | Mayo Clinic Why Cheating in Sports Is Prevalent — and We Can’t Stop It | Forbes Magazine The Steroid Problem, and How to Fix It | Sports Illustrated Kids_________Other Current Debates in SportsWe have provided three possible case studies above to explore, but there are innumerable questions to research, discuss and debate. Here is an additional list of 11 questions. And of course, students can suggest their own topics.Should Every Young Athlete Get a Trophy? Should Character Matter in Pro Sports? Is It Wrong to Let Children Do Extreme Sports? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Gambling on Sporting Events Be Legal? Should Male and Female Athletes Be Paid the Same? Is Technology Helping or Hurting Sports? Is the 3-Point Basket Ruining Basketball? Should Animal Sports (Horse Racing, Rodeos, Bullfighting, etc.) Be Banned? Are Advanced Statistics Helping or Hurting Sports? Should Offensive Team Names and Mascots Be Ended?_________Asking students to question the status quo in the world of sports doesn’t only help them strengthen their argument writing and speaking skills, but it can also strengthen their creative thinking and problem-solving skills.A. Propose a New Sport for the OlympicsWe have all played or watched sports. But what exactly is a sport?What is the difference between a sport and a hobby? Is fishing a sport? How about poker? What about E-sports? Should the top players of League of Legends be considered athletes? And if so, would they be in the same class as LeBron James?How about chess?Don’t answer too quickly; chess is recognized as a sport in 107 countries. Poker is broadcast on ESPN.Define Your TermsAn essential aspect of making an effective argument is the need to be clear and precise in defining terms. We discussed earlier about how one defines G.O.A.T. frames the entire “greatest of all time” debate. The same can be said for defining terms like “performance-enhancing drugs” in the debate about steroids or “patriotic” in the discussion about national anthem protests. When it comes to deciding what should or should not be considered a sport, or an Olympic sport, defining the term “sport” is essential.Students might begin by reading the following articles and then designing their own criteria for what is or isn’t a sport:Are Video Games a Sport Born on Sideline, Cheering Clamors to Be Sport Competitive Bridge Is Not a Sport, a British Court RulesStudent Challenge: Make a formal argument to the International Olympic Committee to add or delete a sport.The fight over which sports get to be featured in the Olympics sheds light on the continuing societal question, “What is a sport?” Currently, there are 28 summer and 15 winter Olympic sports. (See the full list of sports here.) Did you know life saving is  officially recognized by the International Olympic Committee as a sport (though, as Victor Mather writes, “that doesn’t mean it will take its place in the Summer Games alongside venerable sports like track, basketball and synchronized swimming”).Students can begin their research with the following examples:Are Video Games Olympic Material? Some Boosters Say Yes The Olympics Would Be Better With a Breakdancing Competition. Discuss. Great Moments in Cheerleading: Could the Olympics Be Next? Too Many Olympic Events, or Not Enough?Next, students should pick one Olympic sport to add or delete. They should then prepare an argument to support this proposal.In making their case, students should compare the sports they are proposing to existing Olympic sports, and provide criteria for assessing those comparisons.In his Room for Debate opinion essay “Drop the Sliding Sports,” Robert K. Barney writes:Are there some winter sports that should be dropped? It may be perceived by many as blasphemous, but I have always had a difficult time in equating the demonstrated lack of athletic qualities in winter sliding sports, like bobsled, luge and skeleton, that depend more on technology and less on athleticism with those sports that reflect the epitome of strength, agility, endurance and strategy (nordic and Alpine skiing, speed and figure skating, and so on).B. Propose a Rule ChangeRules are essential for any game or sport, yet they change all the time. How basketball is played can vary greatly from state to state. Every few years, it seems, the National Football League changes what qualifies as a catch and a legal tackle, alternately confusing and infuriating players and fans alike.Student Challenge: Propose a rule change to improve the game.For inspiration, students might read some of these proposed changes — big and small, practical as well as fantastical — from the pages of The Times before making a pitch for their own rule changes.Baseball’s Too Slow. Here’s How You Fix It. Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination In a Hole, Golf Considers Digging a Wider One Still Questioning the Best-of-Five Format in Men’s Tennis Drivers, Start Your Calculators: Nascar Introduces New Scoring System Room for Debate: Raise the RimConsider the Proposal From All SidesWhether you want to raise the basketball rim by six inches or triple the size of a golf hole, you’ll need to consider how the change would affect the sport from all angles. In guiding their research for the development of their proposal, students should keep in mind the following questions:• What are some weaknesses of the current game? (e.g., amount of scoring, length or speed of the game, popularity, and ratings)• What are the causes of the weakness? (e.g., tradition, the age of the fan base, technology)• What are some possible solutions?• How hard would it be to put the rule change in place?• What might be the drawbacks or unintended consequences of your game change?• How might purists or other critics respond to your rule change? How might you try to persuade them to join your side?In “Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination,” Rob Hughes passionately states a perceived problem in the current game of soccer:The penalty shootout is an abomination. It reduces a team sport to a contrived tiebreaker that obliges physically tired and emotionally drained players to step up one by one, trudge half the length of the field and try to shoot down the opponent’s goalkeeper from 12 yards....Júlio César Soares de Espíndola — to give him his full title — guessed correctly and dove the right way to save the first two penalty kicks against him. He then was beaten twice. Finally, Júlio César just got plain lucky when Gonzalo Jara fired Chile’s fifth penalty beyond his reach, but against the post.From that twist of fate, that misplacement by inches, Brazil’s hope of winning the World Cup for the sixth time in its illustrious history remains on track. Two hundred million hearts in Brazil can beat again. Chile can go home across the Andes, defeated not by two hours of soccer, but by the lottery of shootouts that have their proper place alongside fairground games such as knocking over targets at a dozen paces.Later, Mr. Hughes considers some solutions to the problem:The old solution used to be that tied games were replayed, but in today’s crowded schedules, expediency demands that the result is decided on that day. FIFA tried the toss of a coin and had rejected a brighter idea from the now defunct North American Soccer League.The N.A.S.L. of the 1970s had, to my mind, a fairer option.It required an outfield player to run with the ball from 35 yards out, giving him five seconds to score and allowing the goalkeeper to advance toward the player.That at least contained more skills than the single shot of a nervous, fatigued individual.No matter what rule they focus on, students should be clear to state the problem with the status quo and support their claim with details. Then they should propose a solution and explain why it would help to eliminate, or at least improve, the problem with the current rule._________Below, we provide a few possible ways students can build their argument writing and speaking skills and demonstrate those skills in front of an audience:A. Write an EditorialHave your students pick a sports-related issue that matters to them, such as inequity in pay for female athletes, and then write an evidence-based persuasive essay like the editorials The New York Times publishes every day. They can practice all year, but save their best work to submit in our annual Student Editorial Contest. (See our contest calendar for more details.) Each year we select 10 winners along with dozens of runners-up and honorable mentions from thousands of submissions.Here are some sports-related editorials from the New York Times Editorial Board that can serve as mentor texts (in addition to our winning editorials from past years):The Corruption at the Heart of March MadnessRein In Online Fantasy Sports Gambling What Time Is the A.F.C. Championship Game? The Scars From ‘Bell-Ringing’ Football Tackles Who Gets to Race as a Woman? Special Olympics Takes On the WorldAdditional Resources for Writing EditorialsStudent Writing Models | Winning Student Editorials. Lesson Plan | Persuading an Audience Using Logos, Pathos and Ethos  Lesson Plan | For the Sake of Argument: Writing Persuasively to Craft Short, Evidence-Based Editorials Lesson Plan | I Don’t Think So: Writing Effective CounterargumentsB. Have a DebateThere are many ways to hold formal and informal debates. Here are a few popular formats:Lincoln-Douglas Debate: In this formal debate format, arguments are divided into timed segments and go back and forth between the “pro” and the “con” sides, with teams presenting arguments, providing evidence to support arguments and offering rebuttals. See our 2004 lesson Weighing the War for more details about this format.Roundtable Discussion: Students take on the role of experts and engage in a talk show-style debate similar to the discussion format on such TV shows as “Meet the Press.”Tournament Brackets: Students hold a research- and debate-based “tournament” to determine the “winners” of each round, until a final winner is declared.Structured Academic Controversy: Pairs assigned to each position research and then present their argument to a pair that is assigned the opposing side. The debate follows these steps: Identify the argument; present the argument; restate the argument; discuss opinions; share conclusions; debrief the exercise. See our lesson On ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’: Debating a Proposed Repeal for more details about this format.Moving Debate: After preparing for a debate on an assigned topic, students are arranged in the room in three sections: agree, disagree and neutral/unsure. The debate proceeds with “members” of each section taking turns to make arguments for their position and ask questions of others. As they are beginning to question, refine or change their positions (even momentarily so), they physically move to the sections of the room that reflect their mind-set. See the civics section of our lesson Preserve, Protect and Defend? Considering Violent Protests and American Values for more details about this format.Other resourcesConstructing Arguments: ‘Room for Debate’ and the Common Core Standards Reader Idea | Using Room for Debate to Teach Argumentative Writing and Discussion Skills Winners of Our Student Contest Featured in a Special Room for Debate Post Reader Idea | Debates on Persuasive Language That Extend Outside of ClassC. Use Our Daily Student Opinion PromptsOf all the resources we publish on The Learning Network, perhaps it’s our vast collection of writing prompts that is our most widely used resource for teaching and learning with The Times.So scroll through the sports-related prompts below and see which ones most inspire you to take a stand. Each question comes from our daily Student Opinion feature, and each provides links to free Times resources for finding more information.Are Some Youth Sports Too Intense? Should There Be Stricter Rules About How Coaches Treat Their Players? Do Sports Teams Have a Responsibility to Hold Players to a Standard for Their Personal Conduct? Should Colleges Fund Wellness Programs Instead of Sports? Do Fans Put Too Much Pressure on Their Favorite Professional Athletes? How Much Should Fans Be Allowed to Distract Opposing Teams? Has Baseball Lost Its Cool? Should Women’s Basketball Lower the Rims? Is It Offensive for Sports Teams to Use Native American Names and Mascots? Should Technology in Sports Be Limited?D. Create A Public Service AnnouncementThere are many ways to present an argument; while many of our previous examples focus on writing and speaking, visual thinking is also important. Public service announcements can be both fun and a challenging way for students to take a stance on an issue and to creatively persuade audiences.Students can begin with traditional forms of research and then identify an issue or stance they want to take before envisioning their P.S.A. They can then plan, storyboard, rehearse, record and edit a 30- or 60-second video including a tagline and message.To start, students should view and analyze professional sports public service announcements to understand the strengths and weaknesses of the form. You can use these professional PSAs as models:Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality NFL Players & Coaches Stand Together to Cure ALS NFL Players’ Concussion PSA: Be Man Enough to Admit When You’re Hurt PSA Youth Concussions UEFA’s Anti-racism Resolution Thierry Henry Stand UP, Speak UP CommercialAs a class, analyze and discuss: What is a public service announcement? How is it different from a commercial? What is the message of the P.S.A.? Who is the target audience? What video and audio elements were used? How did these elements strengthen the message? How effective was the P.S.A.? How might you improve it?After identifying their issue or question and conducting research, students can begin planning their public service announcement.Here are some process steps to consider:• Determine a clear message. • Identify a target audience. • Develop a tagline or slogan. • Brainstorm video (stills, graphics, performers) and audio (narration, voice-over, music, sound effects) elements you will use to convey your message. • Storyboard your PSA. • Rehearse. • Record. • Edit._________Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear more about how. Write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com, or post a comment here. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthBy Jane E. BrodyFew would dispute the value to children of participating in sports, organized or otherwise. Being physically active and engaged in friendly competition is widely acknowledged to be good for children’s physical, mental and social well-being. It can foster discipline, cooperation and camaraderie as well as a good time.When I was growing up in Brooklyn in the 1940s and ’50s, we were free to play games and sports that we chose or devised. We picked teams, made the rules and enforced them ourselves. No officials monitored our activities and no adults oversaw or commented on how well or poorly we played. Sure, there were occasional spats, but we learned how to resolve them on our own and get back to having fun.But the concept of free play has since yielded to adult-controlled games and hopes for glory among many of today’s parents. The way youth sports is promoted in many parts of the country these days can be anything but good for the children who engage in them, according to leading experts who described their findings at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons in March.Today, adults are most often the organizers and enforcers of youth sports, and too often they get in the way of their children’s best interests, these experts say.Many parents encourage specialization in a given sport in which their children, often at very young ages, seem to show an interest or aptitude. Notions of college scholarships or professional glory often dance in the backs — or fronts — of parental minds, with some uprooting the entire family to give their kids a leg up.As Dr. Charles A. Popkin, pediatric orthopedic surgeon at Columbia University Medical Center, said at the meeting, “Sadly, what parents want and what parents hope to gain from their children’s participation in youth sports is often at a significant extreme to what the kids actually want.”“Healthy competition is becoming unhealthy,” the orthopedics organization maintains. “More and more young athletes under the age of 12 are focusing on just one sport, and training year-round.” The American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine defines specialization in youth sports “as engaging in a sport for at least three seasons a year at the exclusion of other sports.”Too often, Dr. Popkin and his associates at Columbia and medical centers elsewhere find themselves treating the fallout from early sports specialization when the participants develop overuse injuries.Dr. Mininder S. Kocher, pediatric orthopedic surgeon at Children’s Hospital Boston and another of the conference’s speakers, told me, “I’ve been doing Tommy John surgery” — an elbow reconstruction procedure often associated with professional baseball players — “on more and more kids” who damaged their arms by pitching for too many hours in too many games and practices.In a prospective study of nearly 12,000 youngsters with highly accurate histories of sports-related injuries, Dr. Kocher and colleagues found that early specialization in baseball, cheerleading and gymnastics increased the risk of injury among boys, and specialization in running, swimming, soccer and volleyball, as well as cheerleading and gymnastics, increased the injury risk among girls.The injuries, reported by their mothers, all of whom are registered nurses, included stress fractures, tendinitis and knee injuries like tears of the anterior cruciate ligament, or A.C.L., that require surgical repair.“Intense and repetitive training can lead to pediatric trauma and may require surgery to young shoulders, knees, elbows and wrists,” the orthopedic surgeons’ organization reported. It noted that in children whose bodies are still growing and developing, excessive training in a single sport does not give them enough time to heal properly.Dr. Kocher said in an interview that children who grow up in the northern United States are more likely to become major league baseball players than kids from the South because they can’t play their sport year-round and are less likely to be injured.But even when not injured, youngsters pressured to become star athletes often burn out and drop out, sometimes from sports altogether, Dr. Kocher said.“Children who specialize in one sport early in life were found to be the first to quit their sport and ended up having higher inactivity rates as an adult,” Dr. Popkin reported, based on findings of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine.He emphasized that “parental influence on sports specialization can be profound” and counterproductive if it doesn’t mesh with the child’s goals and interests. If children are to be successful at a sport, the drive to specialize and succeed must be intrinsic, of their own choosing.“If they lack an intrinsic drive, if they’re not having fun, they’ll likely become frustrated and quit,” he said. “When parents hire personal trainers and coaches, there’s an expectation of success that can create a pressure-cooker scenario and lead to burnout.” In a survey of 201 parents of young athletes, 57 percent hoped their children would play in college or professionally, Dr. Popkin reported.In his study of 303 college athletes, 98 percent currently playing one sport had previously played another organized sport before college. They didn’t begin to specialize until they were nearly 15, on average. He noted that Mariano Rivera, considered the best closing pitcher in baseball history, had played soccer, his favorite sport as a youth, before focusing on baseball in his late teens.“You want kids playing sports through life,” Dr. Popkin said. “There are lots of benefits to later sports specialization, at some point in high school. The more sports kids play, the better they learn adaptability. They learn how to learn.”It’s also important, he said, for kids to cross-train by doing multiple sports so that “they develop whole-body skills like balance, quickness and core strength” that can enhance their overall athletic ability.Dr. Popkin said that with the exception of a few individual sports like gymnastics, tennis and fencing, kids do better if they specialize later. In his study of college athletes, only 18 percent reported specializing by age 12. Forty-five percent played multiple sports up to age 16, and there were no early specializers among those who played football, lacrosse or field hockey.It’s a myth, Dr. Popkin said, that athletes who got college athletic scholarships or became professionals in most sports began specializing at early ages. “Early sports specialization is uncommon among N.C.A.A. Division 1 athletes for most team sports,” he reported.His suggestions to parents: “Expose your children to as many activities as possible and support what they like. But if they’re doing more hours of a sport a week than their age in years, they’re overdoing it.“A couple of months of the year, encourage them to do something else. If they play soccer, they could switch off to tennis; if they play hockey, they could try the track team. Cross-training helps their bodies and can keep them from burning out.”This is the first of two columns on youth sports safety.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBeyond spectacular achievement, these athletes managed to alter how others viewed or played their sports.By The New York Times Sports StaffThis is a short list. Hundreds of athletes are truly spectacular at their sport and routinely blow our minds with feats of skill. But our goal this year was to highlight the very few who, through innovation, vision or just plain courage, actually changed how others in their sport viewed or played the game. We have probably missed somebody, so please let us know who you think should be on this list and why. Send your thoughts to sportsnyt@gmail.com. We look forward to hearing from you. FootballBy Ben ShpigelOn the second Monday in October, I walked down the basement steps of a house in Kansas City, Mo., to find Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes staring at me.Not the corporeal version but rather his likeness in two dimensions, painted on a wall in Bob Green’s home that is reserved for Kansas City sporting luminaries. Green asked an artist friend to add Mahomes to the mural in mid-September.It was three starts into Mahomes’s career.“I assume he will make the Hall of Fame, you know,” Green said.Mahomes, at 23, is the best player on the best offense on the top-seeded team in the A.F.C., in a season in which teams are on pace to score the second-most points in N.F.L. history. He threw for the second-most yards in the league this season, 5,097, and the most touchdowns, 50, since 2013, when Peyton Manning set the single-season record with 55.Mobile, strong-armed and touched with a remarkable capacity for completing throws others wouldn’t dare attempt, Mahomes does not represent the new prototype for the position so much as the ideal for how football is played in 2018 and perhaps beyond: directing a creative scheme rooted in college spread concepts with devastating efficiency.His game film is crammed with highlights demonstrating an aptitude for improvising in the truest sense of the word. He employs his awareness and feel to create something new, different, better. Magic Johnson did it. Steph Curry does it. It’s what sublime athletes do. Mahomes is operating within the same confines that have governed football for decades — a 100-yard field, surrounded by 21 other players — but playing quarterback in a way that seems purely individualistic.His no-look throws, his sidearm flips, his left-handed flicks — they all, at least to me, evoke the premise of “Chopped,” the reality show on the Food Network, in which contestants are given baskets of mystery ingredients and must prepare meals. Instead of, say, merging kohlrabi, baby octopus, black plums and animal crackers to create a sumptuous dinner, Mahomes processes all that is around him and of him — pass rushers, decaying protection, his own body positioning — and just reacts.“He shows no fear,” the ESPN analyst Louis Riddick said in a recent interview. “That plays into our society right now. Be your own guy. Be an individual. Take risks, take chances — that’s him. But he doesn’t do it in a way that seems reckless. He just seems to do it in a way that, really, his teammates want him to do it, and it makes them better.”The Chiefs, to a degree, anticipated all of this when they traded up to draft Mahomes in 2017. After sitting him for most of last season, the Chiefs unleashed Mahomes against the poor Chargers in Week 1. He threw for four touchdowns in a game that, with the benefit of hindsight, doesn’t even rank among his best.He flummoxed the Steelers in Pittsburgh with six touchdowns. Facing a 10-point deficit in Denver with less than 7 minutes left, he orchestrated two late scoring drives. In a loss, he dinged the Rams for 478 yards and six touchdowns.More recently, in Week 14, Mahomes deflated the Ravens with a pass that analysis does no justice.It was fourth-and-9 at the Chiefs’ 40-yard line, 89 seconds remaining, with Kansas City trailing by 7. Flushed out of the pocket, Mahomes sprinted right, then a bit upfield while being trailed by two defenders. Near the sideline, he released a throw across his body that traveled, according to the N.F.L.’s Next Gen Stats, 43.6 yards in the air. The ball eluded two Ravens defenders and another converging on Tyreek Hill before nestling in his arms at the far hash mark, by Baltimore’s 28-yard line. On the CBS broadcast, Tony Romo about yelped.Success breeds success, but it also breeds imitation. Desultory teams want The Next Mahomes, but what if there isn’t one? That’s not hyperbole, just reasonable conjecture.In 2018, Mahomes is an outlier in a league hustling to adapt to him. And he’s here to stay.The painting is on the wall.SNOWBOARDINGBy John BranchThe tweet came in the middle of the gold medal competition, a podium-worthy trick in itself. Chloe Kim, then 17 and considered the best female halfpipe snowboarder by those who pay attention to such things, was about to become a global star.“Wish I finished my breakfast sandwich but my stubborn self decided not to and now I’m getting hangry,” she typed, then sent.Not a deep thought, but a relatable one; news of her pangs zipped silently through the crisp, mountain air to her then-15,000 Twitter followers, a modest number for a teenager who is the best in the world at something as cool as snowboarding.Kim then made serious noise by stomping the competition. She twisted and flipped and smiled her way to the bottom, upending and resetting the standard for her event, landing at the top of the sports world.By the end of that sunny February day at the Pyeongchang Olympics, Kim had a gold medal, 150,000 Twitter followers and the type of crossover appeal that makes fans swoon and marketers salivate.The Olympics usually make comets out of their best athletes, not stars. They are flares that burn out of sight quickly or, with luck and momentum, circle around and attract our attention every four years.Kim is different. Fueled by her breakout performance, a day plus a lifetime in the making, she shows no sign of fading from sight.In July, she was awarded the ESPY for best female athlete. Earlier this month, in Copper Mountain, Colo., she won the season’s first World Cup competition as emphatically as she won at the Winter Games. Then she did it again the next weekend at a major event in nearby Breckenridge.Back in February, amid the hunger-game tweeting at the Olympic finals, Kim scored 93.75 points out of 100 on the first of her three runs. No one else in the competition approached the mark. When it came time for her last run, with all other gold medal hopefuls vanquished, she let loose to “one-up myself,” she said.The run scored 98.25 and featured back-to-back 1080s, far more punctuation than she ever puts in a tweet. Kim was the first woman to pair three 360-degree spins off one wall, then the other, back in 2016. And the only one, at the 2018 Olympics, with the nerve to try it and the talent to do it.She is a paradigm buster in a sport with few rules. A cross between Kelly Clark, the most-dominant female halfpipe rider for most of 20 years, and Shaun White, the charismatic crossover celebrity who found the halfpipe to be a launch point for fame and fortune.Kim grew up watching, and competing against, the pioneers of the sport — people like Clark, Gretchen Bleiler and Torah Bright. She was raised on the cool conscience of the sport, but it became clear quite early that she was a rare talent. She would have made the Olympics in 2014, and been a favorite to win, when she was 13, but she was three years too young to qualify.Now 18, she is an insider with outsized talent. She is compact — 5 feet 2 inches and 115 pounds, a bit like a gymnast or a sprinter or any other athlete that blends power and speed. She has style, snowboarding’s term for riding with understated flair and cool ease. But she flies higher than other women, twists more and comes up biggest in the biggest contests.And she has the guts to tweet about hunger pains while doing it.Kim is the Californian daughter of Korean immigrants. Her father, Jong Jin Kim, came from South Korea in 1982 with $800 and a Korean-English dictionary. He worked at fast-food restaurants and liquor stores, took some college classes and became an engineer.Chloe was born in 2000, a child of a new century. Her father put her on a snowboard at age 4, and they learned how to ride together. People saw her potential every step of the way. She turned 11 in 2011, when the 2018 Winter Olympics were awarded to South Korea.Her father did the math. Perfect.That’s why the bottom of the Olympics halfpipe was a perfect mash of person and place. As Kim navigated the crowd to find her family, her eyes filled with tears. So did her father's. So did a lot of people’s.Just a bit earlier, at the time that Chloe Kim was tweeting about her breakfast sandwich from the top of the halfpipe, her father stood at the bottom in nervous anticipation. He held a crinkled, handwritten sign. Next to a big red heart, it read, “Go Chloe!”She’s going.BASEBALLBy Tyler KepnerThe Tampa Bay Rays turned the pitcher’s mound into a laboratory in 2018. They had spent much of last winter trading expensive veterans, and their wealthy division rivals in Boston and the Bronx seemed destined to dominate the American League. Why not blow up tradition and see what happened?“So many people tried to destroy us for doing it, which was kind of funny,” pitcher Ryne Stanek said this month in the bustling lobby of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, where he was attending baseball’s winter meetings. “A lot of fans just didn’t understand the logic behind it.”Now they do. The Rays astonished the industry by surging to 90 victories, helped largely by “the opener,” a position they created in which the first pitcher of the game works only an inning or two. Before May 19 — when they unveiled the plan with the veteran reliever Sergio Romo — the Rays ranked 22nd in the majors in earned run average, at 4.43. From then on, they ranked third, at 3.50.Stanek made 29 starts yet pitched only 40 innings in those games. At one point he set a major league record with nine consecutive scoreless starts, though he pitched just 13⅔ innings in that span. The former All-Star Orel Hershiser — who shared the previous record, with six — says the game itself has not changed, but game theory has changed quite a bit. Stanek, whose unusual rookie season symbolized that, wholeheartedly agrees.“It’s about: How can you use your good players better to win more games?” Stanek said. “Every player, you just want to win games, and whatever way we can do that, that’s what we want to do.”Before the season, the Rays had planned to build a bullpen day into their rotation, with several pitchers sharing the load once every five games. They began the year with four traditional starters, and one of them, Blake Snell, would go 21-5 and win the A.L. Cy Young Award. But when injuries and trades depleted the other reliable options, the Rays dove into data for something different.Teams score more runs in the first inning than in any other inning, largely because they stack their best hitters at the top. The Rays tried to counteract that by starting a pitcher with dominant stuff, then using another — the “bulk guy,” they called it — for multiple innings. That bulk guy was typically young and could benefit from facing easier hitters at the start of his longer outing, and the opener would be fresh enough to do it again the next day, if needed.“When I first heard it, I was like, ‘There’s no way that’s sustainable,’” Stanek said. “But then you start looking at the way the innings break down, and you’re like, ‘It doesn’t really change anything. If you’re going to have your starter go five, and I would throw the sixth, why does it matter if I throw the first and he throws the next five innings to get it through the sixth regardless?’”Stanek, 27, was a starter at the University of Arkansas and in the minors. He liked to approach hitters with his best stuff right away; no conserving for later innings, a mind-set ideally suited to shorter stints. His fastball reached 100 miles an hour in his first try as the opener, on May 26, and he struck out 53 in those 40 innings, with a 3.38 earned run average in the role.From his first start through the end of the season, Stanek made five more starts than any other pitcher in the majors. He wonders how truly bizarre his stat line would seem if he had gotten going earlier.“I had times when I started three times in a week,” Stanek said. “I’m like, ‘I could have gotten 50, maybe.’”No pitcher has made 50 starts since 1904, when the Yankees’ Jack Chesbro made 51 while throwing more than 400 innings. Those days are long gone. With so many strong arms available in relief — and stats showing a decrease in pitchers’ effectiveness the more times hitters face them — only 13 pitchers worked 200 innings in 2018, the fewest ever in a full season.The opener idea is not going away. The Oakland Athletics and the Milwaukee Brewers used it in the playoffs. The Minnesota Twins and the Toronto Blue Jays hired managers from the Tampa Bay coaching staff. Stanek and the Rays have started — well, opened — a very logical trend.“If it gives you a chance to win more games than you lose,” Stanek said, “there’s no reason why people wouldn’t do it.”GYMNASTICSBy Juliet MacurDo you know who stopped Dr. Lawrence G. Nassar, the former United States gymnastics national team doctor who is now infamous as the face of sexual assault in sports?Not U.S.A. Gymnastics. Not Michigan State, where Nassar saw patients at a clinic and molested them for decades under the guise of medical treatment.Not even the F.B.I., which in the summer of 2015 learned of the accusations against Nassar and proceeded to plod along in an investigation — if it can be described as that, considering it didn’t contact the main witness for nearly 11 months.So many people or entities had the chance to stop Nassar from hurting girls and women. But credit Rachael Denhollander, a former club gymnast turned lawyer, for finally making it happen and for subsequently making Olympic sports safer.Denhollander, 33, was the first person to publicly accuse Nassar of sexual assault. Her powerful voice sparked real institutional action against him and has saved lives.Without her, it is possible that U.S.A. Gymnastics would still be actively working to bury sexual misconduct accusations against its coaches. And it is likely Congress would not be demanding change in how the United States Olympic Committee and Olympic sports’ national governing bodies deal with sexual misconduct cases.For years, in many Olympic sports, misconduct cases languished within the sports organizations that inexplicably did not automatically report all cases to law enforcement. Now, because of the Nassar case, it’s a federal crime to fail to report sexual assault in Olympic sports.Without Denhollander, it is also possible that the hundreds of young girls and women Nassar molested over the years would still be suffering in silence.“You made this happen,” Judge Rosemarie Aquilina told Denhollander in January at one of Nassar’s sentencing hearings, where Denhollander was the 156th, and final, one of Nassar’s victims to provide a witness statement. “You are the bravest person I’ve ever had in my courtroom.”In the summer of 2016, Denhollander read an Indianapolis Star story detailing how U.S.A. Gymnastics, for years, had mishandled sexual assault reports. It was her cue to finally come forward with her painful secret.“It wasn’t something I wanted to do because of the fear and the risk behind it, but it was something I knew I had to do,” she told The New York Times in February. “I didn’t want Larry Nassar to hurt one more child. I felt a responsibility to at least try to stop him.”Denhollander contacted the Indianapolis Star and said Nassar had molested her when she was 15. The newspaper published her story in September 2016, when Nassar was still working at Michigan State. He had been let go from U.S.A. Gymnastics more than a year earlier.She also filed a complaint against Nassar with the Michigan State police and a Title IX complaint with the university.Michigan State relieved Nassar of his clinical duties a day after Denhollander filed her police complaint. About a week after her story ran in the Indianapolis Star, Michigan State fired him.By the end of 2016, Nassar was in jail on federal child pornography charges.Since then, Michigan State has settled with Nassar’s victims — more than 300 of them and counting — for $500 million. U.S.A. Gymnastics has entirely new leadership, and it, along with the U.S.O.C., is instituting reforms to keep athletes safer. Congress, the Indiana attorney general’s office, the Justice Department and other entities are trying to figure out who enabled Nassar and his crimes and attempting to make them accountable.Nassar is in prison, serving a 40-to-175-year sentence for a multitude of sex crimes.At his sentencing hearing in January, Denhollander faced her molester. The judge described her as “a five-star general” of an army of abuse survivors. The public remained rapt as Denhollander spoke and asked the court, again and again, “How much is a little girl worth?”For the sports world, that answer wasn’t clear until Denhollander reminded them that a little girl is worth everything.At the very least, as she pointed out, that little girl is worth protecting.RUNNINGBy Scott CacciolaAfter Eliud Kipchoge ran the Berlin Marathon in 2 hours 1 minute 39 seconds to obliterate the world record in September, a lot of people tried really hard to comprehend what he had done.It wasn’t easy, but perhaps the best example of this came a few weeks later at the Chicago Marathon, where attendees of the pre-race exposition were invited to hop on an enormous treadmill and somehow stay aboard while running at a speed of 13 miles an hour — which is really fast. It is also roughly the pace that Kipchoge maintained for the entirety of his record run in Berlin. The people at the marathon expo were being asked to do it for just 200 meters, which worked out to about 35 seconds.Easy, right? Wrong.The results were hilarious. Most of the people who attempted the treadmill experiment tumbled in spectacular fashion, often after just seconds of sprinting all out. And their post-wipeout reactions went something like this: Kipchoge did this for 26.2 miles? Impossible. But sure enough, he did — and the running community is still buzzing about it.It was a cool fall morning in Berlin when Kipchoge, a Kenyan who is now 34, set such a blistering pace — covering the opening 10 kilometers in just over 29 minutes — that two of his three pacesetters had to drop out about 15 minutes later. The third peeled off halfway through the race, leaving Kipchoge to fend for himself for the final 13-plus miles. He made it look effortless.At 5 feet 6 inches and about 115 pounds, Kipchoge skimmed along the pavement with smooth, metronomic strides, breaking the previous record held by Dennis Kimetto, a fellow Kenyan, by 78 seconds — and defeating the second-place finisher by nearly 5 minutes.But most remarkable was that his performance was almost expected. In 2017, at a nonsanctioned event sponsored by Nike, Kipchoge attempted to break two hours with the aid of pacesetters on a race car track in Italy, only to miss by 25 seconds. It seemed a foregone conclusion that he would smash the world record on a sanctioned course given ideal conditions, and he delivered in Berlin, averaging 4:38.4 per mile. His average 5-kilometer pace was 14:24.9, and process this: He did more than eight of those consecutively.Adding to his growing status as a living legend, Kipchoge is something of a philosopher. He reads biographies and keeps a journal. He runs with monastic self-discipline in the hills not far from his hometown in Kenya, but he told me when I met with him in Berlin the week before his record run that he never overextends himself in training. Instead, he said, he reserves his full effort — all 100 percent of himself — for race day, which is a strategy that runs counter to the no-pain, no-gain attitude of so many distance runners.“I want to run with a relaxed mind,” he said.The reigning Olympic marathon champion, Kipchoge has now won 10 of the 11 marathons he has entered, and he told me that he would love to run the New York City Marathon someday. (Race organizers would love to have him, of course.)It is a sign of the times that doping suspicions tend to trail the best athletes — especially when that athlete is a true outlier like Kipchoge, and also when several other Kenyan runners have been caught — but he has steadfastly denied using performance-enhancing drugs, and he has never failed a test for banned substances.So we are left with his body of work, which is unlike anything the marathon world has ever seen. We can only imagine what he will do next.SKIINgBy Christopher ClareyBefore she changed the sense of what was possible in winter sports, Ester Ledecka had to make it clear that no one could change her mind.From an early age, she was intent on being an alpine skier and snowboarder. By the time she reached her teens, she knew she wanted to be an Olympic skier and snowboarder, too.That plan met with plenty of resistance and skepticism from coaches and other experts, who were convinced that she would only be able to excel in one sport at the highest level.But there she was in Pyeongchang in February, winning gold medals in both for the Czech Republic — although not live on NBC, which was under the mistaken impression that the suspense was over and cut away from the super-G competition to other coverage before she could schuss down the mountain and shush the premature celebrations for another skier.Her victory in the women’s super-G was one of the biggest surprises in Olympic history — she had never finished on the podium in a World Cup ski race — but what came next was deeply impressive in a different register.Rather than get rattled by the fallout from her upset, she kept her focus and balance and won the gold medal she was expected to win in Pyeongchang: the parallel giant slalom in snowboarding.Skiers and snowboarders, so often divided into different tribes, were united in admiration. So what will it take for another polymath to follow in her tracks?“Courage, because a lot of people will tell them not to do it,” Ledecka said in a recent telephone interview from Val Gardena, Italy. “I hope after what I’ve achieved, it will be less people, because they will realize it’s possible to do two sports at an elite level. And it doesn’t need to be sports. It could be art or whatever.“But this is the most crucial thing: A lot of people will push you away from your way, your way to the top. And this is what I never had in my mind. I never cared about these people, because I always went for my dreams. And if someone loves these two sports as much as me and is able to start from a young age and work hard for it, then it is possible for sure.”Ledecka, now 23, had undeniable advantages, including an affluent family that could support dual-track training in her youth. Her father, Janek Ledecky, is a prominent Czech musician. But she also had exceptional commitment and talent, and for now she remains a unicorn as she shuttles between World Cup events in alpine skiing and snowboarding.“What she did was amazing, and if you saw our coverage, then you know we did not properly deliver on her story or accomplishment,” said Steve Porino, a former ski racer and longtime NBC skiing reporter. “She did not just show up and borrow a pair of Mikaela Shiffrin’s skis, as we made it sound in our short TV window. She busted her tail as both an alpine skier and snowboarder her entire life. As her dad told me, ‘The only thing we ever had to tell her to do was sleep.’”But even Ledecka faces logistics she cannot conquer. She intended to compete at the world championships in both snowboarding and alpine skiing in 2019. But the final rounds of the parallel giant slalom in snowboarding are on Feb. 4 in Park City, Utah, and the super-G race in alpine skiing is on Feb. 5 in Are, Sweden.“I’m quite sad about that,” she said. “Because I would for sure like to race both, and I was kind of hoping that after what I achieved last year — and after the feedback I’m getting from people where they tell me, ‘Oh, you made the snowboarding sport so much more popular’ — that they might put the snowboarding event like two days earlier. But with this schedule, it’s not possible to do both.”Tom Webb, U.S. Ski and Snowboard’s director of marketing and communications, confirmed that discussions had taken place with the International Ski Federation about changing the schedule to help Ledecka. But Webb said the conclusion was that it could not be done “without causing significant disruption” to both championships.She might have changed the perception of her sports, but her sports are not yet ready to change for her.“With the jetlag and everything, to do both championships I would need to be Superwoman,” she said. “Which I am, a little bit.”AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MAY 11, 2018

The latest American E. coli outbreak, traced to romaine lettuce grown in Arizona, has spread to 25 states and sickened more than 120 people, including one fatally. The previous largest E. coli outbreak, in 2006, was tied to contaminated: EggsChickenHamburgerSpinachAn observational study found that this style of diet was remarkably effective in controlling Type 1 diabetes:Mediterranean dietLow-carb dietLow-fat dietDASH dietSpecializing in a single sport as a young child increases the risk of sports-related injuries. A study of 12,000 children found that a focus on either of these two sports was especially problematic for both boys and girls: Running and swimmingTennis and badmintonCheerleading and gymnasticsWeightlifting and runningA study in mice found that male mice that exercised had sperm changes that resulted in more intelligent offspring. The effects of lifestyle on genes is an example:ProgeneticsAntigeneticsEpigeneticsPhysiogeneticsThis sexually transmitted disease infects up to half of koalas in Australia:SyphilisGonorrheaChlamydiaH.I.V.A randomized trial from Belarus found that at age 16, boys and girls that had been breast-fed had: Higher I.Q.s than those who hadn't been breast-fedLower I.Q.s than those who hadn't been breast-fedBreast-feeding had no impact on I.Q. by age 16Eating these two foods was tied to a later age of menopause onset:Fish and fresh legumesApples and orangesOnions and avocadoesChicken and cheeseAdvertisementAdvertisementRemembering Mel Stottlemyre, Don Newcombe, King Kong Bundy and many others who died this year.Marilynn Smith, 89An LPGA Founder and ChampionHarry Howell, 86Rangers DefensemanJulia Ruth Stevens, 102Babe Ruth’s DaughterEusebio Pedroza, Featherweight BoxerKing Kong Bundy, 63Professional WrestlerTed Lindsay, 93Detroit Red Wings StarDon Newcombe, 92Barrier‑Breaking Dodgers PitcherGene Littler, 88Golfer With a Gorgeous SwingFrank Robinson, 83Baseball's First Black ManagerBob Friend, 88Yankee‑Defeating Pirate PitcherFred Thompson, 85Champion of Women in Track and FieldJohn Coughlin, 33Skating ChampionMel Stottlemyre, 77Yankees' AceProduced by Daniel E. Slotnik, Amisha Padnani, William McDonald and Dan Wakin.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe sports radio personality Craig Carton was sentenced to three and a half years in prison on Friday by a longtime fan and listener — the judge — for a ticket reselling scheme that ended his broadcast partnership with the former N.F.L. quarterback Boomer Esiason.Carton, convicted in November of conspiracy, wire fraud and securities fraud, was sentenced by Chief Judge Colleen McMahon in Manhattan federal court.She greeted him like a radio listener.“Good afternoon, Mr. Carton. Colleen from New York. First time, long time,” the judge said, adding that she used to listen to his show as she drove to court.“I knew you could be fun to listen to,” she said. “I also knew you could be a jerk.”The prison term was half of what prosecutors sought after Carton was convicted at a November trial of soliciting and then largely gambling away nearly $7 million.Geoffrey S. Berman, United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a release that Carton’s ticket resale business, which purported to use his connections to obtain good seats for events like Metallica and Barbra Streisand concerts, was an “elaborate fiction.”Carton, a 50-year-old Manhattan resident, blamed his fall from a measure of celebrity and wealth on “wildly stupid decisions” he made as he tried to cope with memories of being sexually abused at age 11.He said memories of the abuse were set off by revelations of the crimes of Jerry Sandusky, a former Penn State football assistant who was convicted of child sexual abuse in 2012. That led him first to speak angrily and more emotionally than he ever had before on WFAN’s “Boomer and Carton” show, which he co-hosted for years with Esiason. Then he could not sleep.“Nobody knows what it’s like when lights go out and you lay in bed awake and the demons come,” Carton said.He recalled turning to blackjack and eventually developing a gambling addiction so serious that winning and losing became irrelevant.Carton said his arrest in 2017 was a “lightning bolt of awareness for me.” He said he had joined Gamblers Anonymous and was undergoing therapy.“I am truly powerless over this disease,” Carton said. His last bet — a loss — came in June, he added.Before describing the sentence, the judge said she had enjoyed Carton’s show, except when it became too “raunchy.”But she likened his crimes to those of the financier Bernard L. Madoff, who is serving a 150-year prison sentence, though she said Madoff’s scheme, in which he squandered roughly $20 billion, went on far longer.The judge dismissed Carton’s claims that he never meant to lose investors’ money, saying it was a common justification in financial crimes.“The money always runs out at some point, and only then do you realize the road to your personal hell was truly paved with your good intentions,” she said.“Craig Carton, you have indeed descended into a hell of your own making,” the judge said. “Everything you spent a lifetime of building up is gone. Your marriage is over. Your family is decimated. Your kids are terrified. Your career is in tatters. Your reputation is lost.”She did, however, praise Carton’s plan to publicly urge others to stop gambling as she ordered him to pay $4.8 million in restitution and to forfeit $4.2 million. He also must do 150 hours of community service.She said Carton could perhaps someday resume a radio show, which he left after his arrest, but she noted one of the biggest advertisers on sports radio shows seemed to be legal gambling businesses.“That troubles me,” the judge said.Carton must report to prison on July 15.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaLONDON — The Italian Super Cup final has been played on foreign soil nine times, including once in Tripoli at the invitation of the former Libyan dictator Muammar el-Qaddafi. But the site for this season’s match is drawing a whole new level of criticism.At issue is the decision of Italian soccer authorities to forge ahead and stage the showpiece game — a matchup of the winners of the previous season’s domestic league and cup competitions — in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, next month. The match would be played just months after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul and while the kingdom continues to host the largest sports piracy operation in broadcasting history.The Italian league, Serie A, has been lobbied by human rights groups, a local journalists’ union and the Qatar-based beIN Media Group — perhaps the biggest buyer of Italian soccer television rights — to remove the Jan. 16 game between Juventus and A.C. Milan from Saudi Arabia. (Juventus won both the league and the domestic cup last season, so Milan is the Super Cup opponent because it reached the cup final.)Saudi Arabia, which acquired the hosting rights in June as part of a three-match deal worth 21 million euros (about $24 million), has become one of the biggest buyers of sports properties in recent years, with investments including auto races, tennis matches and, more recently, international soccer events.It also is supporting an offer worth as much as $25 billion to acquire the rights to FIFA’s Club World Cup and to create a separate competition for national teams. The proposal has split the leaders of major governing bodies in soccer, some of whom have protested Saudi support for the piracy of multimillion-dollar rights contracts owned by Qatar’s beIN Sports.The journalists’ union for the Italian state broadcaster RAI, which will air the Super Cup in Italy, said last month that it was “absurd and unacceptable” that the game would go ahead in light of the October killing of Mr. Khashoggi, which United States intelligence officials have concluded took place on the orders of Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.Sports leaders have been walking a diplomatic tightrope since the killing. In October, for example, Avram Glazer, the American co-owner of the English Premier League soccer club Manchester United, was one of the many business and political leaders to pull out of a high-profile investment conference in Riyadh — though Mr. Glazer did attend another event in the country, for Prince Mohammed’s foundation, a few weeks later. Manchester United has earned millions from its relationship with Saudi Arabia through sponsorships and other agreements.Last month, the world’s top-ranked men’s tennis player, Novak Djokovic, confirmed that a scheduled exhibition match against Rafael Nadal later this month in Jidda had been postponed. Mr. Djokovic cited Mr. Nadal’s ankle injury as the reason for the cancellation, but both players had come under growing pressure to withdraw after Mr. Khashoggi’s murder.And on Dec. 8, beIN’s chief executive, Yousef Al-Obaidly, wrote a two-page letter, which was seen by The New York Times, to Serie A’s general director, Marco Brunelli, also protesting the fact that the Super Cup game would be played in Saudi Arabia. Mr. Al-Obaidly’s frustration lies with beoutQ, a piracy operation that is seemingly based in the kingdom and that was set up in the aftermath of a blockade of Qatar led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. BeoutQ continues to broadcast premium sports content — including Serie A matches — illegally, and beIN noted that it has committed about $500 million to broadcast the Italian league games.“We do not understand why Serie A has chosen to publicly reward the Saudi Arabian authorities by staging the prestigious Super Cup match in the country, and we would strongly ask you to reconsider,” Mr. Al-Obaidly wrote.Many of the league’s other rights partners have not commented on the matter, including the United States-based sports management company IMG, which last year committed €1 billion to buy Serie A’s overseas broadcasting rights for three seasons. IMG has other relationships and deals in Saudi Arabia, including as part of a partnership to organize a European Tour golf event there early next year.A spokesman for Serie A, citing confidentiality, declined to discuss what the league’s response to beIN would be or to comment on the specific issues raised by human rights groups and the journalists’ union.The auto racing series Formula E also is pressing ahead with plans to host its season-opening event in Saudi Arabia later this month. The series is partly owned by Liberty Global and Discovery Communications, which has seen a number of its Discovery channels made available in the Middle East and in parts of Europe through illegal beoutQ devices. Discovery declined to comment.“Formula E is a catalyst for change, not only with the wider automotive industry and the uptake of electric vehicles on a global scale, but also in playing a positive role in changing perceptions,” a Formula E spokesman said in an email message. “The event in Ad Diriyah is an important opportunity to showcase the power and potential of clean technologies of the future — to a country moving away from dependency on oil and demonstrating a diverse economy.”The spokesman declined to answer questions related to Saudi Arabia’s human rights record or the death of Mr. Khashoggi.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael J. de la MercedLONDON — The financial technology provider Fidelity National Information Services agreed on Monday to buy Worldpay for about $34 billion, in a bid to become a powerhouse in the global payments sector.The deal is among the biggest in the industry, as companies race to capture a share of the booming payments market. Companies like Worldpay are often invisible to consumers, but they process the escalating number of e-commerce transactions and purchases made through contactless payment systems like Apple Pay.That growth has already driven some big deals. In January, Fiserv agreed to buy another big processor, First Data, for about $22 billion.Acquiring Worldpay, a former unit of the Royal Bank of Scotland that itself has grown through acquisitions, would give Fidelity National Information Services — known as FIS — a formidable presence in the e-commerce market. Worldpay says that it processes about 40 billion transactions a year.FIS itself provides software for processing credit-card transactions and other services for banks, and it has also grown through acquisitions, including a $5 billion deal to buy SunGuard in 2015.“Scale matters in our rapidly changing industry,” Gary Norcross, FIS’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement on Monday.The merger still requires approval of shareholders and may come under regulatory review.Under the terms of the deal, FIS will pay 0.9287 of a share and $11 in cash for every share of Worldpay. As of Friday’s closing prices, that is about $112.12, or 14 percent higher than where Worldpay’s stock closed.Including the assumption of Worldpay’s debt, the deal’s overall value is about $43 billion.The combined company will keep FIS’s name and headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla., the companies said. Mr. Norcross will remain chairman and chief executive, and FIS will hold seven of 12 board seats.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Depending on whom you ask, they’re a scourge, invading the streets of decent cities around the country, or they’re a transportation revolution removing the “last mile” hurdle to using public transit and taking polluting cars off the road.E-scooters have caused rage in San Francisco (which only recently allowed them back on the roads) and a legal tiff in Santa Monica. Now they’re set to hit the streets of Sacramento.No matter how you feel about scooters, they often look a lot like lawsuits waiting to happen: People whizzing down the street in the opposite direction of traffic without helmets, jolting over potholes, sometimes thudding up onto the sidewalks and back down again.I asked Thom Rickert, an emerging risks specialist with Trident Public Risk Solutions, which insures governments and other public entities, for his thoughts. Electronic scooters, he said, are part of an emerging realm of the share economy: the complicated liability economy.“It’s somewhat based on the individual responsibility, the responsibility of the vendor and also the manufacturer,” Mr. Rickert said. “Everybody has to assume responsibility for those shared assets.”Sure, you have to scroll through a pages-long waiver on your phone before you can unlock a scooter, which in theory means anything that happens to you while you’re riding is all your responsibility.But, Mr. Rickert said, “there can always be exceptions.”If a business leaves debris in the street and you scoot into it and fall, whose fault is it? Another crucial question is whether there is a financial backstop if home, auto or health insurance don’t cover the accident costs.If, say, you hit a pothole, could a city be liable? Mr. Rickert said that varied widely by jurisdiction.In any case, he said, people like him are keeping a close eye on a growing market for trip insurance — where you might pay a few cents to cover your liability for every mile.He said part of the solution would come from more information about how, when and under what circumstances e-scooters are being used. Plus, you know, a lot of data about injuries.“To see how society adapts to the sharing economy,” he said, “we need data.”(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• President Trump urged bipartisan cooperation in his State of the Union address but he also painted a dire picture of the border. Here’s a fact-check of what he said. [The New York Times]• “The idea of declaring a nonexistent state of emergency on the border, in order to justify robbing funds that belong to the victims of fires, floods, hurricanes and droughts, to pay for the wall is not only immoral, it is illegal,” Attorney General Xavier Becerra of California said in his Spanish-language rebuttal to Mr. Trump. He threatened more legal action. [The Sacramento Bee]• Want to know more about what life on the border is really like? The Times is starting a limited-run weekly newsletter, “Crossing the Border.” [The New York Times]• An F.B.I. investigation is unfolding at Los Angeles City Hall. It’s just one of several corruption scandals playing out in major cities across the country. Here’s why. [The New York Times]• The pilot of a plane that crashed into a home in Yorba Linda was initially identified as a former Chicago police officer. But Chicago officials said he never worked for the department. It added to the mystery of the crash, which killed four people in addition to the pilot. [The Los Angeles Times]• San Francisco’s overdose prevention strategies have helped the city sidestep an epidemic of deaths caused by the synthetic opioid fentanyl. [Stateline]• A disaster assistance center in Oroville that has been open since the devastating Camp Fire will close, though ones in Chico and Paradise will stay open. [The Chico Enterprise-Record]• And a map circulated on social media shows where Camp Fire survivors have ended up: Spread across 29 states and more than 245 communities, and counting. [The Chico Enterprise-Record]• Piglets in gold sweaters, a rainbow of lion dancers and Mayor London Breed calling out, “Gung hay fat choy,” to the crowd: It was Lunar New Year in San Francisco’s Chinatown. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Better luck next year? The Super Bowl got lower TV ratings in Los Angeles than in the U.S. as a whole — and the game’s viewership was its smallest since 2008. [NBC Sports]• “You’ve got to have young guys. Otherwise, guys like me are going to play Hall & Oates or something,” Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors said, explaining why he lets other people control the team’s practice playlist. Instead, they bump E-40, Too $hort and Aretha Franklin. [The San Francisco Chronicle]The tourism commercials love to point out that you can get from the snowy mountains to the sunny beach, all without leaving the great state of California.But there’s something magical about a cityscape blanketed in white, hushed by the cold. That might bring to mind Chicago, Boston or New York, but yesterday, much of the Bay Area, which hasn’t seen notable snowfall since 2011, got a rare wintry display.And The San Francisco Chronicle compiled this very cool project of photos of neighborhoods covered with snow from a surprise storm on Feb. 5, 1976.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWheelsBy Eric A. TaubFor car shoppers in the market for a luxury electric vehicle, until recently there was just one name around: Tesla.That company’s near-monopoly in luxury electrics in the United States is about to change. Several months ago, Jaguar introduced its first electric model, the I-Pace sport utility vehicle. Within the next 12 months, rival electrics will be available from Audi, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche and Volvo.In addition to Jaguar’s I-Pace, the Audi E-tron S.U.V. can now be reserved and will ship next month. Mercedes’s EQC sport utility vehicle is due in 2020. Porsche’s electric Taycan sports car will arrive at the end of this year; prospective buyers can register now to make a deposit. Volvo’s Polestar 2 five-door fastback will ship in 2020.And if you can believe the press releases, this herd will be followed next year in the United States by luxury electric offerings from lesser-known companies. Byton will unveil its M-Byte S.U.V. in China at the end of this year and in the States in late 2020. And Rivian expects to begin production of its electric truck and S.U.V. next year; the company recently announced a $700 million investment led by Amazon.The established carmakers are plotting to dominate the luxury electric field, taking market share away from Tesla. While Tesla owners can be fervent, the vehicles continue to exhibit supposed poor workmanship and endure long repair times. In February, the Model 3 lost its Consumer Reports “recommended” rating because of what the testing organization said were reliability issues.The market, then, is ripe for the taking, and the major luxury carmakers are eager to swoop in, hoping to trade on their reputations for high performance luxury and reliability.Despite their headfirst jump into what will soon be a crowded field, there is no definitive proof that the electric market is growing. Tesla still accounts for only a small fraction of all vehicles sold.Yet Audi, for one, expects that by 2025 it will have 12 all-electric models generating 30 percent of its sales worldwide. By next year, every Jaguar or Land Rover vehicle will have some form of electrification, whether all-electric or hybrid.Audi believes it can succeed because “people want the future,” said Scott Keogh, president of its parent company, Volkswagen of America. “The business is always looking for what’s new.”He added: “Something’s in the air, and people don’t want to be left behind. We’re building something with a cool factor.”That cool factor could scare away customers if they’re not prepared for a different ownership experience. For instance, they should expect to spend thousands more for a “Level 2” home charger, because a standard 120-volt wall outlet provides no more than five miles of charge every hour. A Level 2 charger raises that figure to around 20 miles every hour, an amount that manufacturers say is adequate, given that an owner will typically charge a vehicle overnight.Amazon is working with Audi to install Level 2 chargers; prices range from $1,400 to over $4,000, depending on the age of a home’s electrical panel. An electrician can also tackle this job.Most commercial pay-as-you-go chargers are also Level 2, meaning that they’re practical only if you can plug in most of the day at work. Electric vehicle owners will get little benefit from plugging into free Level 2 chargers in front of supermarkets and other stores for the short time they’re shopping.DC Fast Chargers, which can add up to 240 miles of range per hour on today’s models, are few and far between; the closest to my Los Angeles suburb is a 15-minute drive. And a location often has only one or two charge points, which means you might have to wait to use it.A DC Fast Charger can charge the coming Mercedes EQC to 80 percent from 10 percent in 40 minutes and Audi’s E-tron to 80 percent of its 204-mile range in 30 minutes. Audi will give E-Tron owners the equivalent of 2,000 miles of free charging at Electrify America locations.The next generation of electric vehicles will charge even faster. A 350-kilowatt DC Fast Charger will be able to charge Porsche’s Taycan to 240 miles in 16 minutes. The company will give Taycan buyers three years of free 30-minute charging at Electrify America locations, some of which will have 350-kilowatt outlets. Porsche dealerships will also have a mix of 50-kilowatt and 350-kilowatt chargers.While shorter on range than most gasoline-powered vehicles, electric vehicles accelerate rapidly. Audi claims its E-tron will travel from zero to 60 miles an hour in 5.5 seconds, as will Byton’s all-wheel-drive version. Mercedes’s EQC will accelerate from zero to 60 in 4.9 seconds, Jaguar’s I-Pace in 4.5 seconds and Porsche’s Taycan in less than 3.5 seconds.“The I-Pace gives me everything without compromise,” said David Larsen, director of product planning for Jaguar Land Rover North America. With an electric vehicle, “there’s no gear shift,” he said. “You’d have to go to a Jaguar F-Pace SVR with 550 horsepower to get this performance.”These vehicles are not cheap. Not including the current $7,500 federal tax credit, starting prices range from $63,000 for Volvo’s Polestar 2 to the mid-$100,000 range for variants of the Taycan. Audi’s E-tron costs between $75,000 and $82,000, and the I-Pace starts at $69,500.At that price, expect the vehicles to offer the latest technology. The EQC will come with Mercedes’s new all-digital MBUX touch screen. It responds to voice, touch and hand gestures, recognizing whether the driver or passenger is making a request, calculating routes based on available charge and preheating the interior.The E-tron offers Audi’s updated touch-screen system and is the first vehicle to integrate Amazon’s Alexa voice control system. The screen can display a virtual overhead view of the vehicle, as well as a virtual 360-degree image as if the E-tron were viewed from a distance. Cameras will detect road signs, and a display will keep the driver apprised of what was posted even if the driver missed them. In select cities, the vehicle will indicate when a light will change to green and advise the proper speed to avoid red lights.Volvo’s Polestar 2 will embed Google Maps and Google Assistant with the vehicle, rather than require that these apps be downloaded on a connected smartphone. Its phone-as-key technology will sense the driver’s approach and unlock the doors.Byton’s Shared Experience Display is an all-video dashboard that stretches 48 inches across the interior, and it responds to hand gestures. It can show performance, navigation and entertainment features. The vehicle also has a video tablet in the steering wheel and another in the center console.To help consumers understand what electric vehicles can do, LA CoMotion, an annual conference focusing on the future of transportation and cities, is sponsoring CoMo3000, an electric vehicle rally from New York to Los Angeles that will feature pro, amateur and celebrity drivers.“We want to dispel the idea of range anxiety, and show that electric vehicles are sexy and fun,” said John Rossant, CoMotion’s founder.To get ready for their introductions, manufacturers are retraining thousands of sales employees to understand the new electric landscape.But buyers still need to do their homework. At a recent electric vehicle introduction at a local high-end dealership, two sales employees offered completely different answers as to charging times and the driving range for their new luxury offering.“Training is continuing, and we’re getting up to speed,” said Loren Angelo, Audi’s vice president for marketing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sapna MaheshwariRite Aid, one of the country’s biggest pharmacy chains, will stop selling e-cigarettes and vaping products because of concern that they are fueling tobacco use among middle and high school students across the United States.Rite Aid said Thursday that it would remove the products from its more than 2,400 stores over the next 90 days. The chain will continue to sell regular tobacco products, a decision that some public health advocates criticized.“We’re concerned about some of the alarming statistics regarding the use of e-cigarettes and vaping products by children and teens,” Bryan Everett, the chain’s chief operating officer, said on an earnings call. He added that “while many feel these products are beneficial to those of legal age who are trying to quit the use of tobacco,” the company had decided to stop selling them because of their growing popularity with young people.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that the use of tobacco products, a category that includes e-cigarettes and vaping products, jumped 38 percent last year among high school students and 29 percent among middle school students. The surge, driven by the growth of e-cigarettes, countered the declining use of such products among young people in previous years, the C.D.C. found.Public health experts warn that while teenage smoking remains at record lows, that could be reversed if vaping and e-cigarettes end up leading a new generation to traditional tobacco products.Last month, the Food and Drug Administration moved to restrict the sales of flavored e-cigarettes, which are particularly attractive to young people. The F.D.A. has directed retailers to place e-cigarette products in areas that are not accessible to people under age 18.The agency identified Walgreens stores this year as a top violator of restrictions against selling tobacco products to minors. The F.D.A. has sought a meeting with the company’s leadership to address the problem.Walgreens said in an emailed statement on Friday that it would “welcome the opportunity to meet with the commissioner of food and drugs to discuss all of the steps we are taking regarding this important issue.” The chain said it prohibited the sale of tobacco products to minors and immediately fired employees who violated the ban.The F.D.A. also issued letters this month to a dozen retailers, including Walmart and Family Dollar, asking them to submit plans within 30 days that described how they planned to address and mitigate sales of tobacco products to minors. Rite Aid and Walgreens were not sent letters.Despite the latest move by Rite Aid, public health advocates were not pleased to hear the chain would continue to sell traditional tobacco products. They said the company should follow the example set by CVS, which stopped selling tobacco altogether in 2014 and subsequently branded itself as a health care giant. CVS was the first major pharmacy chain to stop selling tobacco, which had brought in $2 billion in sales a year.“There is a fundamental conflict between their stated mission of improving health and wellness and selling tobacco products, which are the leading cause of preventable death,” said Vince Willmore, a spokesman for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. “Pharmacies cannot have it both ways. Other drugstores should follow CVS’s lead and end tobacco sales once and for all.”Rite Aid said in a statement that many of its customers still wanted to be able to buy traditional tobacco products, but that it had decreased the visibility of those items in its stores in recent years. The company added that it had also expanded its offering of smoking cessation products and trained its pharmacists in a program that can help customers quit smoking.Sheila Kaplan contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAn alleged admissions conspiracy is able to exist only because of the ridiculously large role that athletics plays in college admissions.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Getting a peek inside the college-admissions process isn’t easy. But a team of academic researchers managed to do so several years ago. It helped, no doubt, that two of the researchers were former college presidents — William Bowen of Princeton and Eugene Tobin of Hamilton.The researchers were given access to anonymous admissions records at 19 elite colleges and then analyzed how admissions offices treated different groups of students. Low-income students, for example, were no more likely to be admitted than otherwise similar students with virtually identical academic records. So-called legacy students — those whose parents attended the same schools — received substantial boosts. So did underrepresented minorities.But the biggest boost went to recruited athletes: An athlete was about 30 percentage points more likely to be admitted than a nonathlete with the same academic record.I thought of that study yesterday, after the Justice Department announced it had indicted 50 people for trying to rig the admissions process. The alleged scam involved payments funneled from parents to college coaches, who in return would falsely identify applicants as athletic recruits to the admissions office. Just like that, the students then become virtual shoo-ins for acceptance.If the accusations are true, they’re outrageous. But they also highlight a larger problem that has somehow become acceptable: A scam like this could exist only because competitive sports occupy a ridiculously large place in the admissions process. The situation is different for other extracurricular activities. Great musicians are more likely to be admitted to a college than similar students who don’t play an instrument — as is only fair, because musicians deserve credit for their accomplishments. But the musicians don’t generally receive a 30-percentage-point boost on their admissions chances. Stage managers for the high school theater don’t, either. Nor do student body presidents, debaters, yearbook editors or robotics competitors.Athletes do. Their extracurricular activities are not treated merely as an important part of a college application, but as a defining part. “Athletic recruiting is the biggest form of affirmative action in American higher education, even at schools such as ours,” as Philip Smith, a former dean of admissions at Williams College, has said. It’s a relic of the supposedly character-defining role that sports played in elite colleges a century ago. And sports have retained their unique place in the admissions process even though most teams at elite colleges are not good enough to compete for national championships. To put it another way, the student athletes being recruited to these colleges are not among the very best in the country at what they do. They are extremely good, yes, and they work hard, yes — but that also tends to be true of high school musicians, student government leaders and so on.I’m a sports fan and long-ago high school athlete. I have a lot of admiration for students who are talented enough and work hard enough to play sports in college. But they are not a different species. It’s time to end the extreme special treatment that colleges give to so many of them. College sports can still exist without it.For more …At many selective colleges, about one-fifth of first-year students are recruited athletes, and the share is higher at some. At Williams College, for example, about 30 percent of students are recruited athletes, according to the college.“Recruited athletes not only enter selective colleges with weaker academic records than their classmates as a whole but that, once in college, they ‘consistently underperform academically even after we control for standardized test scores and other variables,’” Edward Fiske wrote in a 2001 book review for The Times.The Times’s editorial board notes that the indictments do not challenge the legal uses of money to influence the admissions process: “What the government actually is defending is private property — the right of the colleges to make their own decisions about admissions, and collect the payments.” And my colleague Frank Bruni weighs in as well.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this newsletter misstated the share of students at Williams College who are recruited athletes. It is about 30 percent, not nearly one in five.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanWASHINGTON — With a few weeks left in his tenure as commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Scott Gottlieb on Wednesday moved to restrict sales of flavored e-cigarettes to try to reduce the soaring rate of teenage vaping.The agency issued a proposal requiring that stores sequester flavored e-cigarettes to areas off limits to anyone under age 18. Retailers, including convenience stores and gas stations, will be expected to verify the age of their customers.“Evidence shows that youth are especially attracted to flavored e-cigarette products,” Dr. Gottlieb said in a statement, “and that minors are able to access these products from both brick-and-mortar retailers as well as online, despite federal restrictions on sales to anyone under 18.”The rate of teenage vaping has risen sharply in the last few years, with 3.6 million middle and high school students reporting that they vaped last year, according to a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But teenage smoking continues to be at record lows, alongside the general decline in smoking rates, a pattern that public health experts warn could be reversed if nicotine addiction spurred by vaping leads young people to traditional tobacco products.Last fall, the F.D.A. began a crackdown on teenage vaping, threatening to ban most flavored e-cigarettes and warning retailers to stop selling the products to minors. It stopped short of prohibiting the flavors.But the proposal issued on Wednesday outlines details for how retailers must wall off the areas where the products can be sold. For stores that are open to consumers of all ages, the guidelines call for a physically separated room, a spokesman said, adding that stores cannot simply hang a curtain to create a space where flavored e-cigarettes could be sold.Retailers, including convenience store and gas station owners, are on Capitol Hill this week, lobbying against the F.D.A.’s proposals. Some have threatened to fight the restrictions in court.Lyle Beckwith, a senior vice president for the National Association of Convenience Stores representing thousands of retailers, said the group did not believe the F.D.A. had the authority to impose the new requirements. “The Tobacco Control Act clearly indicates they cannot discriminate against a specific channel of distribution, which is exactly what they are doing.”Conservative groups and vaping trade associations also have come out in opposition, saying that the agency’s efforts to regulate the e-cigarette industry amount to government overreach.The new restrictions do not apply to menthol, mint or tobacco flavors, which the F.D.A. wants to keep available for adults who are using e-cigarettes to quit smoking combustible cigarettes.The F.D.A. will also track youth use of menthol and mint e-cigarettes, Dr. Gottlieb said. If they become too popular, he added, the F.D.A. will reconsider the exemption. Such a move would be especially harmful to Juul Labs. The vaping giant, under F.D.A. pressure, has already moved sales of its flavored e-cigarettes online, except for menthol, mint and tobacco, which it sells in stores.But some public health advocates say the moves are too late.“While this announcement sounds big and bold, it isn’t really,” said Micah Berman, an associate professor at The Ohio State University College of Public Health and Moritz College of Law. “The F.D.A.’s announcement exempts mint/menthol, which is the most popular flavor with kids and one that makes it easier to initiate use. And in any event, most kids are getting these products online or through older friends, not buying them in convenience stores.”The proposal also calls for banning the sale of many flavored cigars.“The data also indicate that eliminating flavors from cigars would likely help prevent cigar initiation by young people,” Dr. Gottlieb said. Under the new plan, cigar companies would have 30 days to remove the products from the market, and would have to apply for F.D.A. approval to go back on the shelves.In addition, all e-cigarettes, cigars and related products not on the market by Feb. 15, 2007, must seek F.D.A. approval to sell them by August 2021. As part of their application, manufacturers must prove that their products are beneficial to public health. The agency’s original deadline for these products to comply with new, tougher regulations was extended by Dr. Gottlieb from August 2018 to 2022. Wednesday’s action chops one year off that extension.The plan issued on Wednesday is still a draft, and must undergo a 30-day comment period before it can be finalized. It’s an unusual regulatory approach, neither a new rule, nor a voluntary guideline. Instead, the F.D.A. is telling e-cigarette makers that if their products are sold in violation of this request, they can be taken off the market, and forced to apply for agency approval. The F.D.A. can do this under its discretionary enforcement authority.Dr. Gottlieb is scheduled to have stepped down by that time, and Dr. Norman E. (Ned) Sharpless, director of the National Cancer Institute, was named this week to replace him as acting commissioner.Dr. Sharpless has expressed support for the e-cigarette crackdown to reduce teenage use. In his comments, Dr. Gottlieb stressed that the Trump administration has backed the plan.Also drawing opposition is the agency’s request in the president’s budget released on Monday to collect an estimated $100 million in user fees from e-cigarette makers, similar to the fees imposed on tobacco companies and other manufacturers, to help enforce regulations aimed at teenage vaping.Liz Mair, a Republican political consultant who founded Vapers United, a group that supports tools to stop smoking, said the user fee was equivalent to a tax on the industry and would raise prices on alternatives to traditional smoking.“If your concern is improving public health, either as a matter of altruism and ethics or pure concern for taxpayers’ pocketbooks,” she said, “your policy should generally be to keep vapor taxes lower than cigarette taxes to incentivize people to try to quit smoking using them.”Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyCHAPEL HILL, N.C. — The summer of 2015 found the University of North Carolina in what some, including Jay M. Smith, a professor at the university, would characterize as a curious position.A year earlier, a university-commissioned report had found that the African and Afro-American Studies Department had offered nearly 200 fraudulent classes over almost two decades. These classes had been disproportionately populated by athletes in the high-profile sports of football and basketball, who in some cases were steered by athletic department tutors who knew the courses required little work.The result was one of the worst academic scandals in college sports history, and a huge black mark on a prestigious university and its proud athletic program. The university’s accreditation body placed North Carolina on probation. The N.C.A.A. conducted an investigation.But critics saw few systemic changes.“There’d been none of these public forums, no signs of lessons learned,” Smith said recently.A history professor whose area of study is pre-Revolutionary France, Smith had been agitating about the scandal for several years. He had even written a book about the affair, “Cheated,” with a former learning specialist who helped blow the whistle on the classes.“I thought, I cannot rely on this institution to do the right thing,” Smith said, “and I think it would be an abdication of responsibility for us to pass up the opportunity to provide students at this institution an opportunity to learn about their scandal — how it happened, what it says about college sports, what it tells us about the plight of athletes.”And that is why earlier this week, as the men’s college basketball world turned its attention to the Final Four — an event the Tar Heels qualified for in 2016 and 2017, winning the title in the latter year — well over 100 undergraduates heard Smith lecture on the scandal as part of his increasingly popular course, History 383: Big-Time College Sports and the Rights of Athletes, 1874 to the Present.Students in the class read “Cheated” and “Pay for Play: A History of Big-Time College Athletic Reform,” by Ronald A. Smith, as well as articles about the post-Civil War underpinnings of college football and the struggles of female and black athletes. The last quarter of the class, beginning this week, concerns the North Carolina scandal, including the much smaller controversy that arose over the course itself.Smith is not trolling the university with the class, he said, although he wondered whether his superiors took it that way when two senior administrators seemed to be pressuring the then-department chair to cancel the course a few years ago. (The officials said their questions about the course had nothing to do with its content. The provost overturned a grievance committee’s finding that the officials’ interference had been undue.)More righteous than self-righteous, Smith said the course is an earnest attempt to fight for a fairer college sports system, at North Carolina and elsewhere.His class, he insisted, does not have an agenda. But it certainly has a point of view. And that includes the notion that efforts like the class itself are futile.“By examining all these earlier episodes of growth followed by hand-wringing and efforts at reform, which inevitably fail — what they see is there are systemic features in college athletics that hardened over time and became ever more intractable,” Smith said.Smith provides an unsentimental education that suggests a messy reality, one in which the scandal resulted from the workings of the college sports industry, including how it prevents athletes from getting a piece of the profits they generate.While Smith has clarified in class that he is antagonistic to the college sports industry rather than to college athletes, this ambiguity leads to misconceptions, according to Lydia Thompson, a senior on the rowing team who is taking the class.“Students hear critiques of the ways in which athletes have been abused by the educational system,” Thompson wrote in an email, “and automatically extrapolate those critiques and apply them to athletes who merely have to abide by the rules of that system.”Smith has taught at Chapel Hill since 1990, having arrived during the era of good feelings associated with the legendary late basketball coach Dean Smith (no relation). “I drank the Kool-Aid,” he said.Within three years of his arrival, though, according to a university report, the academic fraud had begun. It did not begin to come to light until 2011, right around when Jay Smith’s involvement with it commenced.That summer, a football player named Mike McAdoo sued the university and the N.C.A.A. over his ineligibility related to another instance of academic misconduct. A student-run honors court had suspended him for submitting a paper in a Swahili class for which a tutor had formatted footnotes. But the paper, which was disclosed in court filings, included plagiarism, and that discovery led to a stream of revelations that eventually exposed the fake-classes scandal.Smith was serving on a faculty committee overseeing the honors court. When a reporter asked to discuss McAdoo, Smith looked up the paper and was “flabbergasted,” he said, not only by its blatant evidence of plagiarism, but also because he knew the ostensible instructor of the course, Julius Nyang’oro, was not a language instructor. (Nyang’oro, the African and Afro-American Studies chair, was later found to be complicit in the scandal.)“All of this smelled really, really fishy to me,” Smith said.Smith and a few other faculty members convened an ad hoc group for academic reform. A neophyte when it came to college athletics, Smith was tutored by Richard Southall, a professor who directed the university’s College Sport Research Institute.Southall, whose institute is now housed at the University of South Carolina, said he gave the group a “primer” on college sports, with the thesis that scandals are the regular, inevitable consequence of the conflict between the N.C.A.A.’s amateurism model and market forces such as fan interest and player value.“Players understand their market value, coaches understand it, everybody understands it,” Southall said in an interview.To hear Smith tell it, the course, first taught over the summer of 2016, came naturally to him. As a historian, he said, “you look for developments over time, charting both continuities and change, and you identify the issues that seem to be at stake.”“I want them to leave the class with a reform spirit,” he added. “I want them to have a fresh appreciation for the way the system mistreats the athletes and why we need radical new thinking to correct those inequities.”Ally Mastroianni, a sophomore on North Carolina’s lacrosse team, said she had enrolled in Smith’s class out of a sense of responsibility. “I did want to learn about the scandal,” she said. “I feel as an athlete I should know the facts.”Her days are long, she said, filled with practice, rehab, classes, meals, homework and maybe some social time. Her main complaint about the relatively new Loudermilk Center for Excellence, a state-of-the-art athlete support center in the football stadium, is that it does not stay open past 10 p.m.“When I see people rolling their eyes, it’s hurtful,” she said of her classmates’ attitude toward Loudermilk, which Smith’s students toured. “I don’t think it’s just a sham.”Still, she did not regret enrolling in Smith’s course. It is, she said, “probably the most interesting class I’ve taken at U.N.C.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe foreign policy establishment was relieved at the sudden end to the North Korean summit. But Koreans hoping for peace were crushed.By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim, a contributing opinion writer, reports frequently from South Korea.Outside the North Korean Embassy in Hanoi, a glass case displaying an array of patriotic photographs was reportedly reorganized just before Kim Jong-un’s arrival. The chairman’s portrait remained untouched at the top of the vitrine, but the images of fruit orchards and fishing boats had been swapped out for those of factories and a satellite antenna. A South Korean reporter, standing outside the embassy, observed that the new pictures seemed “tailored to fit a theme of Vietnamese-style reform and opening.”Instead, President Trump and Mr. Kim cut short their parley, ending the summit on Thursday with no agreement in hand. Much of the American foreign policy establishment, including Democratic legislators, reacted with smug surprise. Mr. Trump had been played, they said, but he was right to walk away rather than to promise too much. According to the president, North Korea had demanded a lifting of all sanctions, to which Washington could not agree. A North Korean official said Pyongyang asked for only “partial” sanctions relief. Washington’s North Korea watchers and foreign policy experts — what Ben Rhodes, President Barack Obama’s deputy national security adviser, has called the Blob — concluded that the summit was a failure and that Mr. Trump never should have met with Mr. Kim in the first place. The Blob was content.Many South Koreans, however, felt dismayed. Mr. Trump is no model statesman, and his record as president has largely been reckless and cruel. Yet in the Korean context, his bucking of foreign policy tradition (born, undoubtedly, of a quest for personal glory) has at least drawn the North into the global arena. Seoul has never had the luxury of selective dealings with Pyongyang. North Korea’s nuclear stockpiles are a less immediate threat than the mass of conventional arms lining the Demilitarized Zone, just across the border. For South Korea, sanctions against the North are not simply a virtue-signaling device, but a policy with immediate, real-world consequences: They can spur the flow of refugees out of the North, undermine efforts by the South to send food and other humanitarian assistance, and make it difficult to host inter-Korean family reunions. The pursuit of a peace treaty — to replace the 1953 armistice, to which the United States but not South Korea was a signatory — would, beyond its symbolic value, help dismantle the culture of militarism and anti-Communist paranoia that has, at times, justified repressive crackdowns in the South.Contrast that with Washington’s view, which has hardly changed in the almost seven decades since the end of the Korean War. The consensus has favored peninsular division, mutual deterrence through a heavy United States military presence in the South, and, for the most part, neglect of the North. That changed only when North Korea began its nuclear program. Denuclearization is the only real priority for the United States, the end point for all discussions with Mr. Kim. But for South Korea’s president, denuclearization is “a starting point for resolution of the Cold War on the peninsula.”The unceremonious end to the summit — without an agreement on nuclear policy, liaison offices, easing sanctions or a peace declaration — was thus received as a blow by South Korea and the global diaspora. Like many of my relatives and colleagues in Asia, I was willing to look past the strongman theatrics, toward a deal that might meaningfully open up North Korea. A friend in Seoul who works as an academic said she was worried that the lack of a deal would provoke right-wing attacks on President Moon Jae-in, a liberal who has faced outlandish accusations of propping up Communism. Another friend, who is active in the South Korean labor movement, cried in disappointment as he watched from New York.Other Korean observers, though, approached the summit with caution. Park Sun-song, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, had expected small, practical gains from the summit, and not even this much was achieved. He emphasized that phrases such as “complete denuclearization” and “reduced sanctions” are shorthand for the dozens of painstaking decisions that lie ahead, about which facilities must be dismantled versus inspected, or which prohibitions on trade and investment should be lifted first. The Koreas are eager to restart their joint flagship projects in the North: tourism at Mount Kumgang and manufacturing in the Kaesong industrial complex. North Korea wants minimum security guarantees above all else, and the signing of a peace declaration could help provide such reassurance.The anticlimax in Hanoi arrived at a poignant time. Friday was the 100th anniversary of the March 1 Movement, a key uprising in Korea’s struggle against imperial Japan and the first exercise of a uniquely Korean identity, according to the historian Suzy Kim. On March 1, 1919, a cheering crowd of some 5,000 intellectuals, activists, students, families and workers gathered in Seoul’s Pagoda Park cheering, “Mansei!” (“Long Live Korea!”) The leaders read a statement asserting Korea’s independence from Japan, inspired by President Woodrow Wilson’s Fourteen Points: “We hereby declare that Korea is an independent state and that Koreans are a self-governing people.” Mass demonstrations were held across the Korean Peninsula and in Manchuria and the United States, and a provisional government was established in Shanghai, a center of the resistance. Yet Korea would have to wait until the end of World War II to gain its independence, only to be promptly divided into North and South.In the Korean imagination, March 1 conjures images of flag-waving martyrs in traditional white hanbok and nostalgia for an ethnically pure, politically uncomplicated past. This is myth, of course, but it’s convenient when it comes to dealing with North Korea. President Moon has tried to use the holiday as yet another occasion for cross-border collaboration, like last year’s Pyeongchang Olympics. He invited the North Korean leader and his entourage to come to Seoul straight from Hanoi, to celebrate March 1. But the North Koreans remained in Vietnam, invited to attend a state banquet hosted by President Nguyen Phu Trong, and to lay wreaths at the mausoleum of Vietnam’s founding president, Ho Chi Minh.The speech Mr. Moon had prepared for March 1 had to take Hanoi into account. There was no peace declaration to praise, so he spoke instead of a lesser form of reunification, a cross-border solidarity that “need not be far away.” He promised to keep working for a “new Korean Peninsula regime,” but there were few details, other than plans for an inter-Korean committee on economic development. In Vietnam, Kim Jong-un’s ministers had visited the tourist hot spot of Halong Bay and a car factory in Haiphong, which provided glimmers of the future that South Korea wants so badly for the North. What it takes to get there, though, is not entirely in Korean hands.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — The NWSL opens its seventh season this weekend with some lingering questions about its health, but also the encouraging possibility of a "bump" from the World Cup.The National Women's Soccer League has already outlasted any of the other previous pro women's leagues in the United States. With support from the U.S. Soccer Federation, the NWSL has fared better than the earlier attempts.That doesn't mean there aren't concerns going into Year 7 — many of which were there in the sixth season, too. Possible expansion, the stability of some individual clubs, a need for sponsorships and the lack of a TV deal are among the issues faced by the league that hasn't had a commissioner since Jeff Plush stepped down in March 2017.Still, the NWSL could get greater exposure starting in June when the World Cup opens in France. NWSL rosters are filled with national team players from around the globe. Teams will have to navigate player absences during the tournament but could win fans for the latter half of the season — much like after the last World Cup in 2015, which the U.S. won.Portland Thorns defender Meghan Klingenberg said she believes the league is still headed in the right direction. But continued success will depend on both investment and the will to see it through."The most important thing is investment across the league, in human resources; whether that's coaching or whether that's just staff that's helping out, whether that's in better fields, whether that's in better housing, whether that's in whatever. Making the league better, in the league front office but also the clubs' front offices, I want that," she said. "And if we can get that, year after year after year then I think we'll be in a good place."The defending champion North Carolina Courage will open the season Saturday night at home against the Chicago Red Stars, one of four games set for this weekend. The Courage defeated the Thorns 3-0 in the title game in front of a crowd of 21,144 in Portland last fall.The victory capped a fantastic season for the Courage, who went 18-1-6 overall, won the league's Supporters' Shield for best record and never dropped a game on the road.HOW TO WATCH: The NWSL and A+E Networks terminated their broadcast agreement in February, leaving the league with no TV partner. Last season, a 'Game of the Week' aired on the Lifetime channel. A+E also surrendered its stake in the league, but Lifetime remains a jersey sponsor.At least for now, the league's games will be streamed live exclusively on the Yahoo Sports app, or on the Yahoo website.EXPANSION: The league currently stands at nine teams. Since the Boston Breakers folded just before the start of last season, there have been persistent rumors about whether the team will be revived by a new ownership group. Spanish club Barcelona had expressed interest in fielding an NWSL team, although there has been no movement on that front. Major League Soccer's LAFC could also jump into the fray, with co-owner Mia Hamm suggesting as recently as last week that it is a priority.Despite all the chatter, NWSL President Amanda Duffy previously indicated the league likely won't make any expansion announcements until after this season.WHAT'S GOING ON WITH SKY BLUE? The troubles that plagued New Jersey's team, Sky Blue, were well documented last year after former player Sam Kerr, now with Chicago, hinted at issues. But improvements have been made.In February, Sky Blue announced that Tammy Murphy, the wife of part-owner Gov. Phil Murphy, would take a more active role in running the team. And indeed, improvements have been made, with better housing and staff additions. The team will train this season at Georgian Court University in Lakewood, New Jersey, and have access to the school's wellness facilities in addition to practice fields.Tony Novo, who served as team president and general manager, resigned and Alyse LaHue was named interim GM. Novo had been criticized by the Cloud 9 supporters' group.SCHEDULE: The league will take a short break during the group stage of the World Cup in France. But a chunk of the league's players will be away with their national teams for extended periods this season. The NWSL allowed teams to expand rosters to 22 players, in addition to four supplemental players who won't count against the salary cap.Teams play a 24-game schedule that wraps up Oct. 12. The championship game is scheduled for Oct. 26.___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe United States can make progress toward reducing the North Korean nuclear threat if Mr. Trump is disciplined in his diplomacy.By Susan E. RiceMs. Rice, a contributing opinion writer, was the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017.On the eve of his departure for his second summit with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump said: “I don’t want to rush anybody. I just don’t want testing. As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Last April, Mr. Kim announced a halt to testing nuclear weapons and missiles, a positive but reversible step. Still, with an arsenal estimated to contain dozens of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, the North Korean threat remains as urgent and serious as ever.Remarkably, President Trump has declared himself content with a nuclear armed North Korea. Not only is this a dangerous reversal of decades of American policy, which has long sought the “complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, it amounts to acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear state.For Mr. Trump, diplomacy with North Korea has always been about theater and politics. In falsely declaring after his first summit with Mr. Kim that “there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,” while bragging that the risk of war — which he foolishly stoked — is now diminished, the president is intent on creating the illusion of progress. In fact, there has been none toward our core goal of full denuclearization. Mr. Trump instead touts his love of Mr. Kim at campaign rallies and generates Nobel Peace Prize nominations for himself with the aim of convincing his political base that he is a diplomatic genius. If he can punt the complex North Korean nuclear threat to the end of his presidency without being disturbed by new tests, Mr. Trump would seem content to claim victory and leave the problem to his successors.Thus, the risk of the Hanoi summit is twofold. First, in a rush to generate good optics and distract from unpleasant developments at home, Mr. Trump may make further concessions to the North Korean dictator, like a peace declaration, partial sanctions relief, or continued limitations on United States military exercises or troop presence without receiving tangible, irreversible concessions in return. Second, Mr. Trump risks squandering an opportunity to make real headway toward denuclearization.The United States intelligence community continues to assess that North Korea will not dismantle all of its nuclear weapons and delivery systems, because Mr. Kim sees them as vital to his regime’s survival. Still, it would be wise to test the limits of diplomacy and the possibility that American experts are wrong. Dialogue, backed by sanctions and concerted international pressure, represent the only rational path for defusing the North Korean nuclear threat. The alternative, a devastating conflagration that could escalate into nuclear war, should be unthinkable.Fortunately, the Trump administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, understands the risks and the opportunities. He is engaged in a serious effort to try both to eradicate North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and address the issues impeding normalization of relations. If Mr. Trump truly empowers Mr. Biegun and refrains from granting premature concessions or acquiescing in the unacceptable status quo, there is potential for meaningful dialogue in Hanoi — unlike the hyped, hollow pledges that characterized the Singapore summit.To move the needle, the United States and North Korea will need to agree on a series of incremental, reciprocal steps that would build mutual confidence as part of a road map to full denuclearization. Such steps could combine verifiable constraints on North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs with limited sanctions relief and movement toward achieving a final peace agreement. Reasonable constraints would include opening up declared North Korean facilities to international inspectors, halting further production of fissile material and ballistic missiles, codifying Mr. Kim’s announced testing freezes and nonproliferation pledge and obtaining firm commitments from North Korea to declare the totality of its nuclear and missile infrastructure.The model for this approach, anathema as it is to Mr. Trump, is the Iran nuclear negotiations. First, the Obama administration reached an interim agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear development and roll back aspects of its program in exchange for limited and reversible sanctions relief. This Joint Plan of Action created the conditions for extended negotiations to achieve — over a year and a half later — a final, verifiable deal to denuclearize Iran. This plan was affirmed by Congress and enshrined in international law. Iran was fully adhering to its obligations when the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew last year.To maximize the prospects for success, as in the Iran negotiations, the United States needs China, Russia, Japan and South Korea to join in overseeing implementation of any interim deal. They must also tighten enforcement of existing sanctions and agree to synchronize any deliberate easing of pressure in exchange for concrete, verifiable steps from North Korea. Unfortunately, our international partners are pursuing their separate interests, diminishing American leverage. Though the Trump administration reflexively scorns multilateral efforts, North Korea is yet another case where going it alone won’t suffice.In Hanoi, Mr. Trump has an opportunity to achieve incremental progress toward denuclearization. Unfortunately, history suggests that Mr. Trump will be content with another colorful photo opportunity and more diplomatic shadow boxing that perpetuates the illusion of success, while running down the clock on a nearly intractable challenge.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.  @AmbassadorRice AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSHANGHAI — Volkswagen plans to build a fully electric sports utility vehicle (SUV) for China from 2021, taking on the Chinese market leader Tesla's Model X as the German carmaker ramps up production of zero emissions vehicles.The planned new SUV is the latest move in Volkswagen's aggressive growth strategy in China, where electric cars are given preferential treatment by authorities.VW said its ID ROOMZZ, which it presented in Shanghai on Sunday, will have three rows of seats and an operating range of up to 450 kms. The concept car is capable of a "level 4 autonomous driving", VW said.VW Chief Executive Herbert Diess said the ID ROOMZ will be the flagship electric car to be launched by Volkswagen in China."We plan to produce more than 22 million electric cars in the next 10 years," Diess said, adding that around half of VW’s engineers were working on products destined for China.Diess said the ID ROOMZ would eventually be rolled out to other markets.To enhance the VW Group's research and development capabilities, Volkswagen and its premium brand Audi will combine their R&D operations in China.VW brand’s head of e-mobility Thomas Ulbrich said the carmaker will start ramping up production of 33 electric cars by mid-2023, using VW Group’s modular electric car (MEB) platform to build electric cars for the Skoda, Seat, Audi and VW brands.Ulbrich said VW Group is converting 16 factories worldwide to enable mass production of electric vehicles, of which eight plants will be making VW branded cars.  (Reporting by Edward Taylor; Editing by Alexander Smith)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHONG KONG — Chinese game-streaming company Huya Inc, backed by Tencent Holdings Ltd, raised $327 million in a follow-on share offering, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.Huya, which went public last year in New York, is part of a growing trend of Chinese tech companies returning to capital markets for cash soon after their initial public offering (IPO).Huya sold 13.6 million primary shares at $24 each, the people said, a discount of 1.36 percent to its closing price of $24.33 on Tuesday. At the same time, social media platform YY Inc sold 4.8 million of Huya shares, bringing the total proceeds of the sale to $442 million.Huya did not immediately respond to a request for comment.There is an over-allotment - or greenshoe option - of up to 15 percent for Huya's share sale, meaning the firm could raise as much as $375 million if exercised. There is likewise a 15 percent over-allotment for YY's stake sale.Huya is China's biggest live-streaming game platform, according to the offering prospectus, competing with Douyu which plans to go public in New York this year.China boasts the world's largest gamer base in e-sports with about 266 million gamers in 2018, the prospectus showed.Huya's shares have risen about 55 percent since the firm's IPO in May, in which it raised $180 million.U.S.-listed Chinese companies have raised $4.24 billion in follow-on share sales and convertible bonds so far this year, Refinitiv data show, the best start to any year in 15 years. Other companies from the 2018 IPO cohort returning for more funds include electric vehicle maker NIO Inc, video streaming company iQIYI Inc, e-commerce firm Pinduoduo Inc and video platform Bilibili Inc.Bankers are pinning their hopes for 2019 on additional capital raising through follow-on offerings or convertible bonds as the crop of Chinese companies looking to go public thins out after a blockbuster 2018 in terms of IPOs.Many of the companies that went public in 2018 raised less money than they had hoped for - partly due to global market jitters and partly because investors pushed back against lofty valuations - which will drive follow-on capital raising.Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and Jefferies are joint bookrunners for the Huya deal. (Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Christopher Cushing and Himani Sarkar)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — The lawsuit recently filed by the U.S. women's soccer team is part of a wider public "awakening" to the challenges that women athletes face, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti told Reuters on Saturday. Speaking on the sidelines of the launch of an initiative aimed at the development of more women coaches, Garcetti said the suit against the U.S. Soccer Federation alleging wage discrimination marked an important step toward gender equality."I think there is an awakening happening in women's sports whether it's abuse, discrimination or simply having basic civil rights denied," he told Reuters."I support women athletes who are saying enough is enough. That for too long the federations have not done right by them to protect them and empower them," he said."It's an exciting moment to see that happening." Closing the pay gap between male and female athletes is critical to attracting women to professional sports, which will in turn boost the popularity of women's sports leagues, he said.Women would no longer accept being treated as second class citizens by their sports, he said, and will demand a greater share of the overall wealth it generates going forward."The WNBA survives and it has been great to see it survive but women who play in the WNBA have to cobble together jobs in Europe in between," he said. "We have to step up as a society and say this matters and that men and women should be on as equal a footing as we can be." The next generation of woman athletes will be better served if they can see similarities between themselves, their coaches and the sports icons they look up to, U.S. gold medalist gymnast Laurie Hernandez said at the Women Coach LA launch event. "I took it as a really big responsibility to be a role model for these kids," she told a gathering of about 400 women at the kickoff for the initiative, which is a partnership between the City of LA and Nike."Growing up I didn't see many, if any, Hispanic gymnasts and I just resorted to being my own person," she said."I guess I didn't realize how big of a deal it was to be a Hispanic American on the Olympic team because then so many little girls started becoming gymnasts," she said. "And it's because they saw someone that looked like them."  (Reporting by Rory Carroll, editing by Nick Mulvenney)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan WolfeOn a recent Friday night, the Knicks and the Wizards jogged out of the locker rooms in a red brick warehouse in Long Island City and tossed white towels into the outstretched arms of cheering fans.A sportscaster’s booming voice introduced the players to a couple hundred in attendance, who watched from seats arranged like bleachers. On two jumbo screens, the virtual players could be seen loosening up with shoulder rolls and elbow bumps while the Knicks and the Wizards sat down in black pleather chairs and put on headsets. A few cleaned their fingers with alcohol pads before picking up their controllers and pushing their faces toward computer monitors placed only a few inches from their noses.This is N.B.A. 2K, the first official esports league operated by a professional American sports league.The video game league, a joint venture between the N.B.A. and the game developer Take-Two, started its inaugural season on May 1. Its games are live-streamed to hundreds of thousands of fans across the world on the online platform Twitch. The games are played in front of a live audience in a flashy new studio in Long Island City, Queens, which opened in April. Here on the banks of the East River, the basketball court is a circle of computers. The locker rooms are internet cafe-like spaces where players warm up before a game. The competition is fueled by sugar-free Red Bull, pigs-in-a-blanket and Gatorade in every color.The Knicks lost that game, 80-68, but have since rebounded, winning enough games to make it to the league finals against the Heat.“From the N.B.A.’s standpoint, this is our fourth league,” said Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., referring to the N.B.A.’s other properties, including the W.N.B.A. and the N.B.A. G League. “While the N.B.A. 2K League is a new concept, because it’s a virtual league, we think we can take the same expertise and experience in operating traditional leagues and bring that to the world of gaming.”The N.B.A. 2k League has several similarities with the N.B.A. — with a few obvious differences.There are 17 teams this year; the N.B.A. has 30. The average age of the gamers is 23; it’s 27 in the N.B.A. Each 2K team is affiliated with an N.B.A. franchise, like the Pistons, the Celtics or the Jazz, and the players live and practice in their home markets. The 2K teams have six players; N.B.A. teams have a minimum of 14.The gamers are paid a salary of up to $35,000 for a six-month contract; Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors, who according to reports is the highest paid player in the N.B.A., made almost $35 million last season.The gamers might not be making millions, but there are a few perks: Free housing. Free training. And the opportunity for self-promotion.Every weekend, all 102 players in the league (except for the Knicks) are flown to New York from regional training centers across the country to compete in Long Island City. Even though it’s an online venture, games during the 17-week season are played in person to avoid connectivity issues.For the 2K Knicks, practice begins at 10 a.m. at 11 Penn Plaza, a building in front of Madison Square Garden. The team spends about eight hours with their coach, scrimmaging, studying match videos and working on strategy. The players — who are from South Carolina, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Virginia and the Bronx — are advised on what foods to eat, how to disconnect before bed and how to develop better sleep habits.“Practicing before, oh, my God, it was insane,” said the 2K Knicks player Marc Rodriguez, 22, from the Bronx, of his gaming before going pro. He began playing the video game N.B.A. 2K at age 10. By middle school, he would regularly play until 3 a.m. “I used to have rough mornings,” he said, “but I would get home again after school, take like an hour nap, and then I would get back on the game.”Before being drafted, the 2K Knicks players were students or held mostly entry level jobs: country club locker room attendant, salesman for a trucking company, YouTube content creator, Amazon warehouse employee. Their day jobs, however, came second to 2K.Idris Richardson, 22, the center for the 2K Knicks, comes from South Carolina, where he boxed and shipped commercial heaters, and later moved to Detroit. He said he never liked playing basketball in real life, but for him, N.B.A. 2K was an escape.“If I didn’t have 2K, I wouldn’t be sitting in this chair; I’d be in jail or dead,” said Mr. Richardson, who described a tough life in Detroit. “Everywhere I go I hear gunshots or sirens 24/7. So it was like, let me stay in the house. I know I’m safe.”When drafting players, scouts look for players with “stick skills” and those who know the game of basketball well.“You really can look at it the same way as you would in traditional basketball,” said Jerry Ferrara, a scout for the 2K Knicks and the actor best known for his role as Turtle in “Entourage,’’ the HBO series. “Is he making the right plays and not forcing shots? That guy is only interested in scoring. That guy withdraws in the fourth quarter, what’s up with that? Could we coach him differently? Coachability is a big factor.”Mr. Ferrara said he conducted interviews on Skype with more than 100 players before draft day in April, factoring in natural playing ability, character and a player’s love for the game, he said. He described the 2K Knicks players as a bunch of social media-savvy, brand-conscious go-getters.“The stereotype of the hairy guy, in his boxers, overweight, eating Doritos and playing video games — yeah, that still exists — but that’s more the casual player, like me, than the pro gamer,” Mr. Ferrara said. “Pro gamers now are busy, motivated young people who get it. They’re having sponsorship meetings, and the popular ones are running full on brands and the aspiring ones see that blueprint now and are following suit.”In the games, the players control avatars who stand a foot taller, or more, than they are. But they bear a passing resemblance: The players could scan their faces and have them mapped on to their characters. Other attributes were left up to the players.“Some have mohawks, or accessories, and some are different races than their avatars,” said Brendan Donohue, the managing director of the N.B.A. 2K League.Some women competed in the tryouts, but none made the final cut, and at the moment, N.B.A. 2K doesn’t support female avatars.“We’re working on that,” Mr. Donohue said.As the popularity of sport simulation games grows, more popular video games — like League of Legends and DOTA 3 — still dominate the video game world.The N.B.A. 2K League said an average of 300,000 unique viewers watch individual game broadcasts this year. In comparison, Overwatch, a popular first-person shooting game, averaged 830,000 daily worldwide viewers at its grand finale at Barclays Center last month, according to the game’s developer. A single League of Legends match during the game’s 2017 World Championship in Beijing saw 80 million unique viewers, according to the developer. Last season, the N.B.A. said that regular games averaged around 1.3 million television viewers.Still, Mr. Silver said, N.B.A. 2K viewers are more likely to attend a game in person or watch one on television after they have watched a 2K match on Twitch, and the league is closely watching to see if the cities, like New York or Cleveland or Memphis, will rally around their hometown players.“It’s a big experiment to see if the geographical ties that are used to build a fan base, whether that can translate into a virtual world,” Mr. Silver said. “That is a new concept.”After the season, the players plan on returning to school and finding new jobs. Nate Kahl, the Knicks power forward, is considering driving for Uber.Mr. Rodriguez said he will go back to his retail job at GameStop and living with his mother in the Bronx, where he’ll continue to grind at 2K.“At this point the sky’s the limit,” he said. “I’m going to keep breaking barriers after barriers and continue to pursue my dreams.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperEvery N.B.A. team is looking for the slightest edge, the smallest piece of data or advantage that will help it win or sign the right players. The Los Angeles Clippers believe they found that something special in an unexpected place: the pages of Sports Illustrated.The magazine announced Monday night that one of its stars, Lee Jenkins, who covers the N.B.A. and has written some of the magazine’s most popular profiles, was leaving after a decade, to join the Clippers in a newly created post called executive director of research and identity.“I was offered an extraordinary opportunity to work in the front office of an N.B.A. team and see the league I cover from a different angle,” Jenkins said in the announcement.A number of writers have crossed over into front-office jobs in the league, but most of them had backgrounds immersed in analytics or evaluating players.Jenkins, 40, who worked for The New York Times for four years before moving to Sports Illustrated, is known for long, lyrical profiles and serving as a conduit for players who want to make a splash with their news. When LeBron James announced he was returning to Cleveland in 2014, he did so through an “as told to” article with Jenkins.This summer Jenkins also wrote a behind-the-scenes report on James’s move to the Los Angeles Lakers, the big story he will now miss as a writer but witness from the underdog team that shares Staples Center with the Lakers.Jenkins said his role would involve researching players to better understand what makes them tick. As currently envisioned, the job will see him mostly evaluating players from other teams or not yet in the N.B.A., though as a Clipper employee he will not have the kind of access to them he has had for the closely observed profiles he is known for.“What they are trying to do is better understand who players are, who different players are, what sort of distinguishes players, how they’re wired and what motivates them,” Jenkins said in an interview.Yet he cautioned he would not be making picks himself.“If it were up to me to do evaluation, I would probably recommend Q and D-Miles to come back,” Jenkins said on an ESPN podcast Tuesday, referring to the former Clippers players Quentin Richardson and Darius Miles, who were popular but underperforming players in their time with the team.Jenkins’s departure comes as Sports Illustrated faces stiff financial setbacks. It has had several rounds of layoffs, and reduced the frequency of its publication to 27 issues a year, from a high of 51 as recently as 2015. Its parent company, Time Inc., was acquired by the Meredith Corporation last year, and Sports Illustrated has been on the auction block for the better part of 2018. Time magazine was bought for $190 million over the weekend, and Sports Illustrated could have a new owner in a matter of days.Jenkins said none of that entered his decision-making process.“I am not worried about Sports Illustrated,’’ he said. “I love the people there and loved every day I had there. No matter what was happening at Sports Illustrated, this opportunity would’ve had incredible appeal to me.”Lawrence Frank, the Clippers’ executive vice president for basketball operations, said the team was not looking to hire a journalist or fill a specific position, but wanted to hire Jenkins and build a job around him.“This was all about Lee,’’ he said.Jenkins will not be writing about the team for the Clippers website or acting as a scout, he said, providing instead a wide-ranging job description that lacked specifics.“Let’s all acknowledge the fact of how incredibly talented he is and his ability to tell stories, connect the dots, highlight the personalities of our players, and what it is going to highlight about the Clipper experience,” Frank said.Jenkins will report to Frank and Michael Winger, the general manager, and will not have any employees under his purview but will be assisted by the entire front office.“My hope is that I learn a lot early on especially fast, and I figure out where I can help and where I fit in,” Jenkins said.Jenkins is joining the Clippers at an inflection point. Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan — the core of a team that made six straight playoff appearances — have all been traded or left since last off-season, right as James arrives in Los Angeles to reassert the supremacy of the Lakers.But the free-agency class of 2019 is expected to be one of the strongest in years, and the Clippers will have enough room under the salary cap to sign two superstars. On the court, that is.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSo a compelling two-year run of American political and cultural theater comes to a deeply unsatisfying conclusion. Colin Kaepernick, a once brilliant young quarterback, chose to take a knee for his beliefs and endured apparent blackballing by the most powerful sports league in North America.It would be churlish to criticize this man for taking an unspecified financial settlement and signing a nondisclosure agreement with the National Football League after he had accused the league’s teams of colluding to keep him out. He sacrificed for his beliefs and with a dignified use of free speech, that grandest of American traditions, he came to personify a coming of political age across several sports.He persevered despite sprays of vitriol from this nation’s president, Donald J. Trump, who in 2017 used the specter of this black man to stir resentments.“Wouldn’t you love to see one of those N.F.L. owners, when someone disrespects our flag, to say: ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’ ” Trump told a crowd in Alabama.It was catnip for the vastly white crowds that roared in disgust over Kaepernick.It is galling that Kaepernick and his former teammate Eric Reid, who joined him in the protest and legal action, must remain mum about the corruptions of the industrial complex known as the N.F.L. The owners almost certainly conspired to blackball Kaepernick, ensuring that he would never throw another pass in the league.As he sought to sign on with a new team for the season after his protest began, and less than five years after he had taken the 49ers to the Super Bowl, owners came up with ever more pathetic excuses for refusing to sign a quarterback so swift and so strong of arm.Now he can say nothing about that travesty. It feels a bit like the Freedom Riders integrating a lunch counter and agreeing not to talk about it.I called Ira Glasser, a former director of the American Civil Liberties Union who is also a deep-dyed sports fan. He resolutely declined to second-guess Kaepernick for surveying the ruin of his career and probably taking a large chunk of money.“He was a star who burst upon the scene explosively, and maybe he extracted as much justice as he could from this situation,” Glasser said. “But it does leave a stain on the N.F.L. that ought not to be eradicated in the public mind.”Kaepernick did not burn a flag or even hold a proud fist aloft. It’s a measure of the subtle nature of his protest that fans and sportswriters went three preseason games before they noticed that, oh yeah, Kaepernick was sitting out the national anthem.When they asked the young quarterback about it, he talked about police brutality and too many dead black Americans: “To me this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.”In the next game and thereafter, Kaepernick took a knee instead, at the suggestion of a military veteran. Yet the whirlwind of anger somehow gained in force.In the first weeks of that season, I flew to San Francisco to draw his measure. To step into the 49ers postgame locker room was to find a remarkably composed man with the support of many teammates. He walked out of the shower that night and slipped a form-fitting shirt over a lithe, tattooed torso. Then he turned to a bristling array of microphones and cameras and calmly answered every question.Are you proud, a reporter asked him, of your role in stirring players around the N.F.L. — several knelt or raised fists Sunday during the various anthems — to protest? Kaepernick, a new arrival to the world of political activism, shook his head. No airs, man, no airs.“No, no,” he said. “This movement wasn’t for me. As I’ve researched these things, as I’ve seen more and more, it’s not right.”He spoke instead of how social media and reading and looking at photographs online had driven home to him how many blacks were dying at the hands of the police.“You see things instantly, day after day, and it’s hard,” he told us before citing some of the casualties. “For me, I couldn’t see another hashtag Sandra Bland, hashtag Tamir Rice, hashtag Walter Scott.”“At what point,” he continued, “do we take a stand?”It was dissent, yes, and as unthreatening and American as you could find in a country so often given over now to partisan furies. As Glasser, the civil libertarian, said to me Friday, “If that’s not acceptable to this country, what is it that we are supposed to be fighting for?”Colin Kaepernick the football player may soon move into history’s mists. Kaepernick the human rights activist, the man Amnesty International named an ambassador of conscience, may just be coming into his own.You hope only that this young man walked away with a mother lode from the league without shame.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper, Stephanie Saul and Marc TracyThe woman who has accused Virginia’s lieutenant governor, Justin E. Fairfax, of raping her said that a former N.B.A. player, Corey Maggette, raped her at Duke University 20 years ago and that school officials did not pursue the claim, according to a childhood friend of the woman and Facebook messages the woman exchanged with another friend.Mr. Maggette, who attended Duke for one year, 1998-99, and reached the national championship game, played in the N.B.A. until 2013 and has since worked as a television analyst for Fox Sports.Mr. Maggette denied the accusation through a spokesman Monday evening. “It has only been through media accounts and a statement from Meredith Watson’s lawyer that I first learned or heard of anything about these sexual assault allegations,” Mr. Maggette said in a statement. “I have never sexually assaulted anyone in my life and I completely and categorically deny any such charge.”A spokeswoman for Fox Sports West, where Mr. Maggette is a basketball analyst, said in an email, “Fox Sports takes allegations of misconduct seriously, and we are looking into the matter. We have no further comment at this time.”Nancy Erika Smith, the lawyer for the woman who accused Mr. Maggette and Mr. Fairfax, Meredith Watson, said in a statement Friday that Ms. Watson had been raped by a Duke basketball player during her sophomore year but did not name the player. Ms. Smith also said that Ms. Watson had reported her rape to an unspecified dean at the university, but that the dean had “discouraged her from pursuing the claim further.”Duke has acknowledged it is investigating an allegation that a player raped the woman, but a spokesman for the university declined to comment on the identity of the player or the assertion that the university failed to act on the accusation.“We are in the process of gathering information to determine what policies and procedures were in place during the time period in which these events are alleged to have occurred, and whether they were activated and followed,” said Michael Schoenfeld, a spokesman for Duke. “We are not able to provide further information or comment on any individual at this time.”Years before Ms. Watson came forward as the second woman to publicly accuse Mr. Fairfax of sexual assault, inflaming a political crisis in Virginia, she told multiple friends that she had been raped by Mr. Maggette, according to one of those friends and Facebook messages exchanged with another.R. Stanton Jones, a partner at the law firm Arnold & Porter in Washington who grew up with Ms. Watson in Baltimore, said she told him that she had been raped by Mr. Maggette. She told Mr. Jones about it while he and Ms. Watson were both home for the summer in 2001, he said.“Meredith told me she had been raped twice at Duke,” Mr. Jones said. “And she told me that one of the men who raped her was the Duke basketball player Corey Maggette. That was a name I knew because I’m a basketball fan.”Mr. Jones, who did not attend Duke, said he had not had much contact with Ms. Watson in the last decade “other than occasionally liking a Facebook post.” He said he was coming forward now because it “seemed like the right thing to do.”The longtime coach of Duke’s men’s basketball team, Mike Krzyzewski, said after his team’s victory against Virginia on Saturday night that he had “no knowledge” of the situation and that he had learned of it only from news media reports Friday.Karen Kessler, a spokeswoman for Ms. Watson, provided The New York Times with a Facebook message exchange between Ms. Watson and a friend from March 2017. Ms. Kessler declined to identify the friend, whose name was blacked out in the messages, and The Times was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the messages.In the messages, Ms. Watson expressed disgust at a newspaper article written about Mr. Fairfax, who had already announced his bid for lieutenant governor. After the friend asked Ms. Watson whether she had reported the rape, Ms. Watson responded: “You know I didn’t report it after how the university responded when I reported Corey Maggette.”Ms. Kessler said that after being discouraged by the dean, Ms. Watson decided not to report her accusation to the police.Mr. Krzyzewski — who is in his 39th season coaching the Blue Devils and is college basketball’s leader in wins — and Duke have held themselves up not only as consummate winners but as moral exemplars.No Duke player under Mr. Krzyzewski was kicked off the team until early 2015, when a player was dismissed for unspecified struggles to meet “necessary obligations.” The university’s student newspaper, The Duke Chronicle, reported that the player, Rasheed Sulaimon, had been accused of sexual assault by two students, allegations the athletics department had been aware of as early as 10 months before terminating his participation with the team. (Sulaimon was not charged, and later played for Maryland.)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe United States can make progress toward reducing the North Korean nuclear threat if Mr. Trump is disciplined in his diplomacy.By Susan E. RiceMs. Rice, a contributing opinion writer, was the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017.On the eve of his departure for his second summit with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump said: “I don’t want to rush anybody. I just don’t want testing. As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Last April, Mr. Kim announced a halt to testing nuclear weapons and missiles, a positive but reversible step. Still, with an arsenal estimated to contain dozens of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, the North Korean threat remains as urgent and serious as ever.Remarkably, President Trump has declared himself content with a nuclear armed North Korea. Not only is this a dangerous reversal of decades of American policy, which has long sought the “complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, it amounts to acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear state.For Mr. Trump, diplomacy with North Korea has always been about theater and politics. In falsely declaring after his first summit with Mr. Kim that “there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,” while bragging that the risk of war — which he foolishly stoked — is now diminished, the president is intent on creating the illusion of progress. In fact, there has been none toward our core goal of full denuclearization. Mr. Trump instead touts his love of Mr. Kim at campaign rallies and generates Nobel Peace Prize nominations for himself with the aim of convincing his political base that he is a diplomatic genius. If he can punt the complex North Korean nuclear threat to the end of his presidency without being disturbed by new tests, Mr. Trump would seem content to claim victory and leave the problem to his successors.Thus, the risk of the Hanoi summit is twofold. First, in a rush to generate good optics and distract from unpleasant developments at home, Mr. Trump may make further concessions to the North Korean dictator, like a peace declaration, partial sanctions relief, or continued limitations on United States military exercises or troop presence without receiving tangible, irreversible concessions in return. Second, Mr. Trump risks squandering an opportunity to make real headway toward denuclearization.The United States intelligence community continues to assess that North Korea will not dismantle all of its nuclear weapons and delivery systems, because Mr. Kim sees them as vital to his regime’s survival. Still, it would be wise to test the limits of diplomacy and the possibility that American experts are wrong. Dialogue, backed by sanctions and concerted international pressure, represent the only rational path for defusing the North Korean nuclear threat. The alternative, a devastating conflagration that could escalate into nuclear war, should be unthinkable.Fortunately, the Trump administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, understands the risks and the opportunities. He is engaged in a serious effort to try both to eradicate North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and address the issues impeding normalization of relations. If Mr. Trump truly empowers Mr. Biegun and refrains from granting premature concessions or acquiescing in the unacceptable status quo, there is potential for meaningful dialogue in Hanoi — unlike the hyped, hollow pledges that characterized the Singapore summit.To move the needle, the United States and North Korea will need to agree on a series of incremental, reciprocal steps that would build mutual confidence as part of a road map to full denuclearization. Such steps could combine verifiable constraints on North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs with limited sanctions relief and movement toward achieving a final peace agreement. Reasonable constraints would include opening up declared North Korean facilities to international inspectors, halting further production of fissile material and ballistic missiles, codifying Mr. Kim’s announced testing freezes and nonproliferation pledge and obtaining firm commitments from North Korea to declare the totality of its nuclear and missile infrastructure.The model for this approach, anathema as it is to Mr. Trump, is the Iran nuclear negotiations. First, the Obama administration reached an interim agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear development and roll back aspects of its program in exchange for limited and reversible sanctions relief. This Joint Plan of Action created the conditions for extended negotiations to achieve — over a year and a half later — a final, verifiable deal to denuclearize Iran. This plan was affirmed by Congress and enshrined in international law. Iran was fully adhering to its obligations when the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew last year.To maximize the prospects for success, as in the Iran negotiations, the United States needs China, Russia, Japan and South Korea to join in overseeing implementation of any interim deal. They must also tighten enforcement of existing sanctions and agree to synchronize any deliberate easing of pressure in exchange for concrete, verifiable steps from North Korea. Unfortunately, our international partners are pursuing their separate interests, diminishing American leverage. Though the Trump administration reflexively scorns multilateral efforts, North Korea is yet another case where going it alone won’t suffice.In Hanoi, Mr. Trump has an opportunity to achieve incremental progress toward denuclearization. Unfortunately, history suggests that Mr. Trump will be content with another colorful photo opportunity and more diplomatic shadow boxing that perpetuates the illusion of success, while running down the clock on a nearly intractable challenge.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.  @AmbassadorRice AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byVideo games, streaming sites and eSports are plagued with trolls.By Won Sang ChoiMr. Choi is an eSports fan. Imagine that your daughter is playing Fortnite, and a troll in another country joins the game and begins sexually harassing her. Imagine that your son is watching his favorite video gamer live-stream an eSports game, and the streamer begins to shout obscenities. Disruptive behavior like this has become routine in video games. The system that guides the appropriateness of content on these platforms is obsolete, and children who play video games are exposed to inappropriate and abusive behavior. To fix this, and make video games safe for children, we need a new content rating system for the eSports era. With the rise of eSports, video games are no longer just a hobby, as they were in my elementary school days when I used to play Super Mario on my Super Nintendo. In eSports, professional gamers compete in video game leagues and tournaments like the Overwatch League and the International DOTA2 Championships, where the prize money can reach into the millions of dollars. The eSports industry wants legitimacy in the world of sports, and it’s succeeding. Video games are evolving to a place where they are treated like athletic sports, and the gamers treated like athletes. Pro gamers sign yearly contracts with teams and practice for hours and hours to enhance their skills and build team strategies. Those who make it to the top enjoy worldwide fame, like South Korean pro gamer Lee Sang-hyeok, known as Faker, who has been called “eSports’ Michael Jordan.” At the Asian Games 2018 in Indonesia, six video games were played as a demonstration sport. At the next Asian Games, in four years, gamers will be awarded medals. Even officials of the 2024 Paris Olympics are considering video gaming as a demonstration sport.The final games at the League of Legends World Championship in 2018, which ended last weekend, attracted more than 200 million viewers. This year, thanks to streaming sites like Twitch and YouTube, game live-streaming will have an audience of 380 million  viewers worldwide.eSports platforms and video games are plagued by trolls. As eSports are rising to the same worldwide standing as athletics, and gamers are treated as athletes, the level of sportsmanship within video games is lagging far behind. In the League of Legends, I can form a virtual team with players around the world in less than five minutes and play against millions of others. As soon as the match starts, someone types a message in the chatbox. “Feel like trolling,” the anonymous person says, and everyone else on the team knows what’s coming next. Soon, the troll who was supposed to be your teammate kills himself in the game and types obscenities — misspelled to avoid text filters — which flash across the screen. There’s nothing that my teammates or I can do about the troll. I tell the anonymous troll that I’ll report him. “LOL!” he says. I start another game, only to be trolled again. The same toxicity plagues streaming sites like Twitch and YouTube, where people watch other gamers play. One pro gamer was playing a live public match on a Korean national TV channel, where thousands of children were watching. Forty seconds into the stream, his anonymous opponent typed a string of obscenities into the chatbox for all to see. In another stream, the N-word was used about 60 times. In another instance, a streamer used explicit and homophobic language when talking to a gay pro gamer. Four years ago, in what became known as Gamergate, anonymous online miscreants harassed women in the video game industry, drawing worldwide outrage well before the #MeToo movement began. Today, 48 percent of gamers are women, and some — like Kim Se-yeon, known as Geguri, the first female gamer in the Overwatch League — make it to the pro level. But trolls pester female gamers with obscene, sexist and misogynistic language, without any consequences. In the world of gaming, there are no rules.The most troubling aspect of this is that most games are intended for children and young adults. Approximately 64 million children in the United States play video games. We don’t allow our children to watch things on television that contain this kind of language or behavior, and we certainly don’t want them to think that the language and behavior of the trolls is acceptable. My family moved to the United States two years ago from South Korea. My 3-year-old daughter loves learning English through YouTube videos and by playing puzzle video games. I fear that she’ll be exposed to this toxicity soon, unless we eliminate trolls, put a new ratings system into place and demand better of the video-gaming industry. There are very real dangers to be feared: In June, a 7-year-old girl’s avatar was sexually assaulted in a Roblox game.The regulations and ratings systems now in place are not doing enough to stop the trolls. If an Elmo character shouts the F-word or kills his teammates in a game, it doesn’t affect the game’s rating, as provided by the industry’s self-regulating organization, the Entertainment Software Rating Board. The E.S.R.B. reviews how violent and sexual game content is, but not how toxic the gamers are becoming in the games. The Federal Trade Commission says on its website that “you may be able to block the player, or notify a game’s publisher or online service.” While I’ve blocked and reported hundreds of trolls to the video game companies, I’ve never heard back.Even though this problem is widespread and many of the trolls live outside the United States, the F.T.C. and the rating board can take steps to make video game communities less toxic. First, they need to clearly define what is and is not acceptable in video games and streaming sites. Video games should be rated based on the amount of trolling that happens, and streaming sites should be rated just as video games are. Streaming channels should be dynamically filtered based on the user. Children under a certain age should not be able to see videos that use explicit language or sexual visuals.Second, the F.T.C. should run extensive tests on video games and streaming sites to understand the toxicity and trolling of gaming communities. To do so, it can work with gamers across the country to collect data, as well as work with game companies and streaming sites. Third, the F.T.C. should require game companies and streaming sites to share public reports on how they are managing and preventing toxicity across their platforms. Whenever trolling occurs — especially in children’s games — the users and their parents should be notified, and the games or platforms should be required to address the trolling and share the steps that were taken to stop or prevent it.The F.T.C. can apply these rules to companies outside of the United States that want to sell their products here, where 178 million players generate $30.4 billion in revenue every year.Parents also need to shoulder some of the responsibility. In the United States, 91 percent of children ages 2 to 17 play video games. We need to protect our children by deleting the toxic games from their personal computers, consoles and phones. We need to share their stories online to expose the problem. It’s time to make the online world safe for them. Won Sang Choi is an eSports fan who recently received an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikW. E. B. Griffin, who depicted the swashbuckling lives of soldiers, spies and cops in almost 60 novels, dozens of which became best sellers, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Daphne, Ala. He was 89.The cause was colorectal cancer, said his son William E. Butterworth IV, who was also his writing partner.Mr. Griffin estimated that he had published more than 150 books, many of which appeared on the best-seller lists of The New York Times, Publishers Weekly and other publications. His output included fiction for young adults and children’s books. According to his website, there are more than 50 million copies of his books in print in more than 10 languages.Determining the exact number of books he wrote is not so easily done, however: He was a ghostwriter for many, and many others were published under a variety of pseudonyms, including Webb Beech, Edmund O. Scholefield, Allison Mitchell and Blakely St. James.Even the name W. E. B. Griffin was a pseudonym; his real name was William E. Butterworth III.His best-known books are under the Griffin name. The first was “The Lieutenants” (1982), which became the first installment in “The Brotherhood of War,” a nine-novel series that followed soldiers in the United States Army from World War II through the Vietnam War. Among his other series were “Badge of Honor,” about the Philadelphia Police Department, and “Clandestine Operations,” about the birth of the Central Intelligence Agency.Mr. Griffin’s writing was straightforward and a bit wry. In an early scene in “Top Secret” (2014) — the first book in the “Clandestine Operations” series — Lt. James Cronley is seated in a car with the young woman he will soon marry.“She turned to face him,” Mr. Griffin wrote. “Their eyes met. ‘Jimmy, you sound like my mother trying to reason with me. …’ Their conversation was interrupted when the proximity of their faces caused a mutual involuntary act on both their parts. A minute or so later, Jimmy said, ‘Jesus H. Christ!’ and Marjorie said, a little breathlessly, ‘Don’t let this go to your head, but as kissers go, you’re not too bad.’ ”His fast-paced novels, rooted in history and chockablock with technical details, combined action, sex and patriotism and had a devoted readership. A profile in The Washington Post in 1997 described Mr. Griffin as “the grizzled griot of the warrior breed” and “the troubadour of the American serviceman.”Mr. Griffin saw himself in simpler terms.“Basically I’m a storyteller,” he said. “I like to think I’m a competent craftsman, as writers go, but I am wholly devoid of literary ambitions or illusions.”His relentless pace — early in his career he sometimes completed four books a year — slowed somewhat in recent years. His son William became his full-time writing partner in 2006.William IV said he intended to keep writing in the style that Mr. Griffin’s fans enjoy; a new book in the “Badge of Honor” series, “The Attack,” is to be published in August, with more novels, in that and other series, to follow.William Edmund Butterworth III was born on Nov. 10, 1929, in Newark. His father, William II, was a traveling shoe salesman. His mother, Gladys (Schnabel) Butterworth, was a saleswoman in a department store.His parents divorced when he was a teenager, and William attended several East Coast preparatory schools before enlisting in the Army.He served in Germany just after the end of World War II, becoming a clerk and typist for Gen. Isaac Davis White. After a stint in college in Germany, he re-enlisted and again worked for General White during the Korean War.After the war, Mr. Griffin left the military to become a writer. He moved to Philadelphia, where he worked for a year as a corn oil and starch salesman, a job he despised. He soon moved to Fort Rucker in Alabama to work for the Army as a civilian technical writer.He published his first book, “Comfort Me With Love,” about a young soldier’s adventures in Europe after World War II, in 1959. Two years later he left his job at the base to write novels and other books full-time.Beginning in the mid-1970s he wrote several sequels to “M*A*S*H,” the 1968 novel, by the former military surgeon H. Richard Hornberger and the writer W. C. Heinz under a pseudonym, that inspired the movie and television show of the same name.Though many were optioned, Mr. Griffin’s own books, under any pseudonym, have never been turned into movies, his son William said. One reason was that studios balked when Mr. Griffin insisted on maintaining creative control.Mr. Griffin married Emma Macalik while he was stationed in Germany after the war. The marriage ended in divorce in the 1990s.He later married Maria del Pilar Menendez, whom he had met on a hunting trip in Argentina. They had a home in Pilar, a suburb of Buenos Aires, and split their time between there and Alabama. She died in 2018.In addition to his son William, his survivors include another son, John; a daughter, Patricia Black; many stepchildren; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and many step-grandchildren.In 2009 Mr. Griffin told The Philadelphia Inquirer that he felt especially proud of his novel “The Honor of Spies,” which was about to be published.“It’s the best thing I’ve ever written,” he said. “Of course, I’ll feel the same way about the one that comes out next June.”Follow Daniel E. Slotnik on Twitter: @dslotnikAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWheelsBy Robert C. YeagerThey’re classic cars fit for a concours d’elegance, a royal wedding or simply a quiet drive down a country lane. They exude vintage elegance, but lifting the hood reveals they’re fueled by electricity, not gasoline.When Prince Harry and Meghan Markle quietly sped off in a 1968 E-type Jaguar after their 2018 wedding, they made automotive history. Although completely “stock” in appearance, beneath their roadster’s sleek, opalescent blue bonnet throbbed a heart measured in kilowatts. Indeed, the royal honeymoon coach was believed to be the first classic sports car converted to electric power by a major automaker.“In the collector world, this is a very exciting development,” said McKeel Hagerty, whose namesake firm in Traverse City, Mich., sells vintage-auto insurance, tracks classic car values and conducts driver-owner surveys.Shortly before year’s end, another venerable British marque joined the trend, the newcomer being Aston Martin, the century-old automaker. (In October, Morgan Motor Company of England postponed plans to introduce an electrified version of its iconic three-wheeler.)Aston Martin unveiled a reversible “cassette” system meant to offer owners the best of all worlds. Installed directly on the original engine and gearbox mountings, the zero-emissions EV powertrain is enclosed within its own self-contained cell or “cassette.” If an owner wishes to compete in classic car shows or sanctioned motor sports events, the original engine and transmission can be reinstalled in about a week’s shop time, says Paul Spires, president of Aston Martin Works.“We want to give our heritage cars greater longevity,” said Mr. Spires, president of Aston Martin Works. “We’d hate for them all to just wind up gathering dust in museums, where no one can actually enjoy a classic Aston on the road.” A secondary goal: staying ahead of global environmental “regulatory and social pressures,” especially as they relate to automobile use in and around urban centers.As with Jaguar’s “Concept Zero” E-Type, the only external clue to the car’s true power source is a glowing digital screen nestled in its dashboard.Both Aston and Jaguar say their electric cars offer handling and performance that’s on a par with the originals. That works out to top speeds of roughly 120 miles per hour and modern-day-matching 0-to-60 acceleration times.Wrote Car and Driver magazine of its August 2018 test drive in the Jag: “It handles rougher surfaces well and, despite some enthusiastic throttle applications, never felt short of traction.” The review was headlined: “Battery Power Doesn’t Ruin the Jaguar E-Type.”Mr. Spires said a ride in Aston’s converted 1970 DB6 MKII Volante — successor to James Bond’s famous DB5 — conveys “an incredible sense of well-being.” It may not deliver the same soul-satisfying sounds and smells as a half-century-old original, he acknowledged, but silently cruising through winding country lanes in a vintage top-down roadster offers its own rewards.“We expect sophisticated global buyers, especially those who consider themselves socially and environmentally aware, to think more of Aston Martin,” Mr. Spires said. “This adds credibility to our value as a brand.”To be sure, electric automobiles are nothing new. Ferdinand Porsche unveiled the first hybrid-powered auto in 1900. Thousands of early electric cars, taxicabs, trucks and buses were built in the United States by firms like the Electric Vehicle Company. The hybrid Owen Magnetic a century ago, for example, used a gasoline motor to run its generator, a setup reminiscent of today’s Chevrolet Volt.Still, might not the Jaguar-Aston offerings rankle some purists as, well, heretical? “On the contrary,” Mr. Hagerty said, “it bodes well for the collector hobby.” Last year, for the first time, his firm recorded more requests for vintage-auto insurance quotes and greater usage of its valuation tools by Generation Xers and millennials than by baby boomers, he said.Something of a purist himself — he still drives the 1967 Porsche he restored with his father at the age of 13 — Mr. Hagerty added, “If this gives someone a reason to buy a vintage car for the first time, it’s awesome.”Even so, electric-minded collectors should brace for some sticker shock. Jaguar estimates something “in the region” of 300,000 pounds (a bit over $380,000) for a fully restored E-type Zero, and then about £60,000 (over $75,000) for a conversion.The company, based in Coventry, England, says it has already taken deposits on deliveries expected to commence in the summer of 2020. Jaguar is working to bring street-legal versions to the United States, says Mike Goodbun, a spokesman for Jaguar Classic, a division of Jaguar Land Rover dedicated to preserving the firm’s heritage. Build slots are filling up fast, he said.While Jaguar is moving ahead with restored and converted E-types, Mr. Spires says, his firm will offer conversions — and reversals — of the rarer Aston models at its Newport Pagnell facilities in Buckinghamshire. As at Jaguar, prospective clients “have already raised their hands,” he says.Would a converted — or rather a reconverted — classic really be welcome at ultra-choosy events like the annual Pebble Beach Concours d’Elegance in Carmel, Calif.? “It depends on how seamless it is,” says Martin Button, a member of the show’s selection committee and owner of Cosdel International, which transports and stores vintage cars.“If the reversion process really removes all evidence of the changes, it would probably be judged like any other car,” Mr. Button said. “But if it’s still got some little screen on the dash, that’s another matter — that would be a real takeaway.”Chances are those glowing controls won’t pose an insurmountable problem, at least for the Jags, said Bruce Trenery, an E-type owner. “The original instrument panels come out with a few thumb screws,” he says, “so swapping out a digital screen shouldn’t be that big a deal.”On the other hand, the economics of vintage cars could present a higher hurdle. Even a perfectly restored Series 1 roadster, with covered headlights and dashboard toggle switches, “is a $250,000 car,” says Mr. Trenery, whose company, Fantasy Junction in Emeryville, Calif., has bought and sold collector vehicles for over four decades. “A nearly $80,000 conversion fee would represent almost a third of its value.” For less valuable American sports cars like most Corvettes and Mustangs, such conversions would seem even more impractical, at least for now.Mr. Button also frets about the usable range of electrified sports cars. “Spirited driving can really gobble juice,” he says, remembering an experience in a Tesla Roadster. With a reputed range of well over 100 miles, the Tesla ran dry at less than 50, he says.Despite such reservations, Mr. Trenery and Mr. Button see a path to the future in the British automakers’ announcements. The Jaguar XKE “isn’t just a beautiful car, it’s a milestone design that’s going to live on,” Mr. Trenery said. “If you want to enjoy it in congested areas — and you have the financial means — electrification could make sense.”Mr. Button thinks such conversions might someday “inoculate” older classics like Duesenbergs and Packards against tightening regulations. “But it won’t happen overnight,” he added. In the United States at least, lower fuel prices and relaxed mileage requirements mean “we’re still a long way from not being able to drive our classic cars,” he said.In any case, Mr. Button, an avid vintage car collector in his own right, probably won’t be an early customer. “I’m an engineer,” he said. “I like pistons and valves and mechanical old stuff. I even like the smell of gasoline.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA yearlong, randomized trial in England showed that e-cigarettes were almost twice as successful as products like patches or gum for smoking cessation. By Jan HoffmanIt has been one of the most pressing unanswered questions in public health: Do e-cigarettes actually help smokers quit? Now, the first, large rigorous assessment offers an unequivocal answer: yes.The study, published Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine, found that e-cigarettes were nearly twice as effective as conventional nicotine replacement products, like patches and gum, for quitting smoking. The success rate was still low — 18 percent among the e-cigarette group, compared to 9.9 percent among those using traditional nicotine replacement therapy — but many researchers who study tobacco and nicotine said it gave them the clear evidence they had been looking for.“This is a seminal study,” said Dr. Neal L. Benowitz, chief of clinical pharmacology at the University of California, San Francisco, an expert in nicotine absorption and tobacco-related illnesses, who was not involved in the project. “It is so important to the field.”The study was conducted in Britain and funded by the National Institute for Health Research and Cancer Research UK. For a year, it followed 886 smokers assigned randomly to use either e-cigarettes or traditional nicotine replacement therapies. Both groups also participated in at least four weekly counseling sessions, an element regarded as critical for success.The findings could give some new legitimacy to e-cigarette companies like Juul, which have been under fire from the government and the public for contributing to what the Food and Drug Administration has called an epidemic of vaping among teenagers. But they could also exacerbate the difficulty of keeping the devices away from young people who have never smoked while making them available for clinical use.“There is an unavoidable tension between protecting kids from e-cigarettes and smoking cessation, which is also very important,” Dr. Benowitz said.Tobacco use causes nearly 6 million deaths worldwide each year, including 480,000 in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If tobacco use trends continue, the global death tally is projected to reach 8 million deaths annually by 2030.E-cigarettes provide the nicotine smokers crave without the toxic tar and carcinogens that come from inhaling burning tobacco. But regulators in the United States, Britain and elsewhere have not approved them to be marketed as smoking cessation tools.“Health professionals have been reluctant to recommend their use because of the lack of clear evidence from randomized controlled trials. This is now likely to change,” said Peter Hajek, the lead author of the study and a professor of clinical psychology at Queen Mary University of London, which coordinated the clinical trials through public “stop-smoking clinics.” The New England Journal devoted much of its current issue to e-cigarettes, publishing two editorials and a letter, and the collection embodies the tangled public health debate over the devices. One editorial — written by Belinda Borrelli, a behavioral health expert and Dr. George T. O’Connor, a pulmonologist — pumped the brakes on inclinations to embrace e-cigarettes. They noted that 80 percent of the study participants who had quit by using e-cigarettes were still vaping at one year, while only nine percent of the nicotine replacement therapy group was still using nicotine products. That raised concerns, they wrote, about sustained nicotine addiction and the unknown health consequences of long-term e-cigarette use.The editorial recommended that e-cigarettes be taken up when other cessation approaches, including behavioral counseling, have failed; that patients use the lowest dose of nicotine possible; that health care providers establish a clear timeline for e-cigarette use.Another editorial implored the Food and Drug Administration to ban all nicotine flavors for vaping devices because of their appeal to adolescents.The clinical trial took place from May 2015 to February 2018. Because the smokers were recruited at the clinics, they were already predisposed to quitting, a feather on the scale that could slightly have affected results. The participants were typically middle-aged, smoked between half a pack and a pack a day and had already tried quitting.  The e-cigarette subjects were given a starter kit with a refillable device and one bottle of tobacco-flavored nicotine e-liquid, with 18 milligrams per milliliter — the most common product in England.(At the time, Juul, the top seller in the United States, was not available in England. Juul has much higher nicotine concentrations — either 59 milligrams or 35 milligrams.)All the participants had individual latitude within their study groups to closely approximate real-life scenarios. When the vapers finished their bottle of nicotine liquid, they could choose whichever flavor and nicotine strength to purchase.The people using nicotine replacement therapy could select from an array of products, including the patch, gum, lozenge and nasal spray. They were even encouraged to combine them; most did so, typically opting for the patch and an oral therapy.Because self-reports of smoking abstinence are not considered reliable, researchers measured the quantities of carbon monoxide in the participants’ breath, a more precise validation.Dr. Maciej Goniewicz, a co-author of the British study who is now a pharmacologist at the Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in Buffalo, N.Y., said that the success of the e-cigarettes most likely reflects a combination of factors: “It’s about the method of delivery, the quantity of nicotine and the user’s behavior,” he said. “E-cigarettes have the advantage that the user decides how and when to puff. Nicotine replacement therapy products have specific instructions, which are different for different products.”Dr. Benowitz noted that the higher quit rates and compliance among e-cigarette users could be additionally explained because those subjects expressed more satisfaction with the devices than did the other group with their products.In their editorial, Drs. Borrelli and O’Connor pointed to other research on smoking cessation therapies: In one study nicotine-replacement therapy and the antidepressant buproprion (Wellbutrin) achieved slightly higher abstinence rates than did e-cigarettes in this latest trial. The prescription drug varenicline (Chantix) has performed even moderately better. Moreover, these products have been proven safe, they said.Particularly for American vapers who have embraced the e-cigarette Juul, with its higher levels of nicotine, one outstanding question is whether such a product would be even more effective at smoking cessation.Some researchers hypothesize that because a body takes in only the amount of nicotine it needs to maintain a certain level, high-nicotine products like Juul could have the advantage of delivering that power punch with fewer puffs, decreasing the amount of harmful aerosol a vaper would inhale. But Risa Robinson, a professor of mechanical engineering and director of respiratory technology at Rochester Institute of Technology, expressed worries about emerging studies showing harmful effects of nicotine.Such worries prompted a letter published in the same journal about teenage vaping in Colorado, which led the country in underage use in 2017.Dr. Tista S. Ghosh, on behalf of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, wrote in the letter: “Free counseling has been made available through the Colorado QuitLine for children as young as 12 years of age who are attempting to quit any nicotine product.”Jan Hoffman is a health behaviors reporter for Science, covering law, opioids, doctor-patient communication and other topics. She previously wrote about young adolescence and family dynamics for Style and was the legal affairs correspondent for Metro.  @JanHoffmanNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaLONDON — The fiercely competitive sports media market in the United Kingdom is causing major problems for another insurgent company trying to penetrate it.Italian businessman Andrea Radrizzani’s Eleven Sports, a start-up network with global aspirations, is considering shutting down its business in Britain, just four months after arriving with a blaze of publicity and courting controversy.Having spent millions to outbid the country’s biggest network for popular European soccer rights, Radrizzani said he is now likely to pull out of the country if he cannot work out distribution deals with Britain’s media giants for his channel, which until now has only been available online on a subscription basis.Without the agreements, his business is not viable in the United Kingdom, Radrizzani said by phone this week. His channel had been dubbed locally as the “Netflix of sports,” a title that other so-called over-the-top platforms like the industry’s biggest spender, billionaire Len Blavatnick’s DAZN, has also been cultivating.“You cannot just keep losing money,” Radrizzani said, adding that Eleven couldn’t rely on internet subscribers alone to make its British venture work. By outbidding Sky and BT, Britain’s two largest sports broadcasters, for Spanish and Italian soccer rights that the two companies had previously owned, the 44-year-old entrepreneur was entering uncharted territory, according to Mike Darcey, who negotiated several billion dollars’ worth of sports contracts for Sky when he was its chief operating officer.“La Liga and Serie A have been broadcast by the main players in the past,” Darcey said. “He’s picked a more serious challenge.”Eleven wouldn’t be the first broadcaster with big ambitions to gain market share in sports to fail in the United Kingdom. About a decade ago, ITV Digital and Setanta collapsed, while ESPN’s British television operation lasted less than five years before it pulled out.“He’s the latest guy in a long line to overestimate his model,” Darcey said. “Everyone thinks it’s easy until you try to make money.”Rights values, largely driven by competition for live Premier League and Champions League soccer between Sky and BT, the United Kingdom’s former telecoms monopoly, have spiked in recent years to such an extent that both broadcasters and consumers have become pickier over what content they need to have, after committing billions on soccer rights.Sky, which broadcast Spanish soccer for 20 years until it was snatched by Eleven, and BT, which held the last contract for Serie A, have recently entered cooperation agreements that make content from both companies available on each platform. Radrizzani said he offered Eleven’s content to both at lower prices than they were previously paying but could not reach a deal.Both Sky and BT declined to comment. Without a deal in place, Radrizzani is trying to renegotiate Eleven’s soccer contracts with the Italian and Spanish leagues.It’s not the first time Radrizzani, frequently outspoken on issues related to sports and media, has courted controversy. As the owner of second-tier English soccer team Leeds United, he backed a deal to scrap an agreement Sky had negotiated with the three professional leagues outside of the Premier League. Though by far his most audacious move to date was to ignore a decades-old convention that forbids British broadcasters from screening live games on Saturday afternoon. Eleven, with the backing of La Liga, broadcast a couple of rounds of top-flight soccer before eventually agreeing to stop.With the rights Eleven has, Radrizzani said, it isn’t sustainable as a streaming platform in the United Kingdom. The Ultimate Fighting Championship, a hugely popular mixed martial arts franchise, scrapped an agreement with Eleven that was due to start in January because it was unable to secure a domestic pay-TV distribution contract. To complicate matters, sports and entertainment conglomerate IMG, which shares an owner with U.F.C., has a small stake in Eleven’s British operation and owns the overseas rights to Serie A. IMG declined to comment.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThough options are limited for now, they exist. For starters, parents should recognize that they are confronting an addiction to nicotine, which is hard to break.By Jan HoffmanVaping is surging among American adolescents. According to one national survey, 3.6 million middle and high school students used e-cigarettes in 2018. Another found that the rise in vaping from 2017 to 2018 was the sharpest for any substance the researchers had investigated in the project’s 44-year history.While e-cigarettes swept onto the market about a decade ago on the perception that they were largely benign — useful tools, in fact, to help smokers quit tobacco — concerns are growing over the harm that might be caused by the particles and chemicals users inhale. But the chief worry is over the ingredient commonly found in vaping liquids: nicotine. Nicotine is the addictive chemical that chains both cigarette smokers and vapers, compelling them to repeated use. Its grip is tough to break.Teenagers, whose brains are still developing, are particularly susceptible. Parents and educators are discovering that, unfortunately, there are no established protocols to help teenagers quit vaping. But there are measures parents can take.Don’t panic. Also, don’t go ballistic. Before you confront, educate yourself.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has a useful website on what the federal government currently knows about vaping and e-cigarettes. The Tobacco Prevention Toolkit, by researchers at Stanford, has a major unit on vaping and Juuls. It is not just for educators: Frequently updated, it has photos, charts and points of discussion that may help you engage your teenager. Try to see e-cigarettes from the perspective of teenagers. They know that on the scale of all things forbidden, lots of substances — prescription and street drugs, alcohol and cigarettes, to name a few — rank far higher than vapes. While adolescents are canny enough to hide their Juuls from you, they don’t really believe that vaping is harmful. So if you unleash an angry outburst, they will likely push back, thinking you are making a big deal over nothing. Also realize that the defensiveness and fibbing you’re hearing may not be just a child reacting to being caught — the sort of behavior that earns consequences and stern lectures. This is different. Your teenager may be addicted to nicotine. If you take a draconian stance, you are essentially threatening to put an addicted person into abrupt withdrawal.You need another approach.“The trick is not to try to scare them, because scare tactics don’t work at this point,” said Dr. Suchitra Krishnan-Sarin, a Yale professor of psychiatry who focuses on adolescent behaviors and tobacco products. “But explaining how these products are making them addicted is the way to go.”Involve them in a conversation. Try to get them to recognize the compulsive quality of their behavior. Show them what researchers know about nicotine addiction and the questions they are raising about the possible long-term harms of vaping.The goal is to encourage them to want to quit for their own good, not just to give you lip service and continue behind your back.Not necessarily. Some people can smoke one cigarette and have a glass of wine at a party — and that’s it.But nicotine addiction can happen swiftly and is extremely hard to extinguish. One factor is the amount of nicotine the user is exposed to. Some vaping devices, like Juul, provide high levels.If there is a family history of addiction, or if other family members are using addictive substances like alcohol, tobacco or drugs at home, a teenager’s vulnerability ratchets up.Teenagers with anxiety or depression can also succumb more quickly. And, doctors note, withdrawing from nicotine can also set off anxiety and depression, at least temporarily.Unfortunately, even the experts aren’t sure. “We as researchers are barely keeping up with the increased use and proliferation of these products,” Dr. Krishnan-Sarin said. “We haven’t started to scratch the surface.”Addiction medicine experts are beginning to suggest some approaches. Ask your pediatrician about them.Cognitive behavioral therapy can help redirect thoughts when cravings hit. Talk therapy can address underlying anxiety or depression, which may be related to the reason the teen is vaping or have been triggered by quitting. Other activities can calm an agitated mind in withdrawal, especially yoga, meditation and sports. A teenager can renew acquaintance with a passionate interest or hobby that might have fallen away.Nicotine patches and prescription cessation medications might be worth exploring, though most are only approved for adults. Dr. Sharon Levy, an adolescent addiction medicine expert at Boston Children’s Hospital, has begun prescribing nicotine replacement patches off-label for older teenagers who are motivated to quit. Experts caution that there is no silver bullet. Instead, they suggest that you try a constellation of approaches.You might also want to reach out to the school counselor: the struggle to quit could affect academic performance and classroom behavior.Speaking of schools: Dr. Krishnan-Sarin also recommends that parents contact administrators not only to urge stricter policies toward vaping, but to insist that teachers and students receive vaping education.Many forces bore down to compel your child to vape, including social media, peer pressure and the easy accessibility of flavored products. It is really hard for any teenager to step away from those omnipresent enticements.As your child struggles to break free, make sure they know you’re not the enemy, but a steadfast ally. Jan Hoffman is a health behaviors reporter for Science, covering law, opioids, doctor-patient communication and other topics. She previously wrote about young adolescence and family dynamics for Style and was the legal affairs correspondent for Metro.  @JanHoffmanNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy and Billy WitzThey are sports that bring in little in the way of money or notoriety or attention compared with the behemoths, football and basketball.In college athletics, volleyball, water polo, sailing, tennis and soccer are relatively small-time affairs that don’t fill stadiums or drive billion-dollar media contracts, and that is why they are at the center of what was described as the broadest college admissions fraud the Justice Department has uncovered.Just like the high-profile sports like football and basketball, coaches in the so-called Olympic sports are generally allowed to reserve several slots each year for students who might not otherwise gain admission. These slots are often in addition to those reserved for the truly elite athletes who receive athletic scholarships or their equivalent at the most selective universities.The Justice Department investigation revealed how this alternative admission path can be exploited and corrupted, especially at the dozen elite universities that were a target.Unlike in football and basketball, there is little in the way of formal rankings or general knowledge about who might be good at what are seen as minor sports, so admissions officials usually have to take coaches at their word when they tell them that an applicant is worthy of a spot on a volleyball or soccer or sailing team, leaving them open to exploitation.That is more difficult to do in big sports. “In basketball and football, it’s out there in the open, compared to the less financially driven sports,” said Corey Evans, a basketball recruiting analyst at Rivals, the recruiting website.[Several college coaches were named in the federal indictment Tuesday. Read more about each of them.]In short order Tuesday, the sailing coach at Stanford was fired. The U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach was placed on leave, as was the Wake Forest women’s volleyball coach, and the men’s tennis coach at the University of Texas. J.B. Bird, a university spokesman, said Texas was “cooperating fully with the investigation. Integrity in admissions is vital to the academic and ethical standards of our university.” The university stated it believed Coach Michael Center’s actions did not involve “any other university employees or officers.”The water polo coach at the University of Southern California, Jovan Vavic, who has won 16 national championships, was fired after he was arrested at his hotel room early Tuesday morning in Hawaii, where he had traveled with the top-ranked women’s team for a match.The practice of reserving spots for athletes in minor sports has grown in recent years, people involved with college sports say, as more colleges have committed to pursuing excellence in every activity, from the chemistry lab to the tennis courts. Also, as the population continues to grow, slots at the most selective colleges are more competitive than ever.Stanford University said that last year, 47,450 students applied for admission, and the university accepted just 2,040. The acceptance rate of 4.29 percent was the lowest in Stanford’s history. No wonder, according to the complaint, the prominent Massachusetts real estate developer John B. Wilson paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in 2018 to secure a spot for his daughter at Stanford.Federal prosecutors did not charge students or universities with wrongdoing.At the heart of the scheme was William Singer, who, between 2011 and 2018, collected $25 million from parents to bribe coaches, and encouraged them to go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.According to the indictment, Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of the students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and fake honors not won. One student sat on a rowing machine to pass herself off as a rower. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, said “people in the volleyball community know who the elite athletes are, but there isn’t enough of a spectator base at most places.”Even fans of extraordinarily popular volleyball squads, like Nebraska’s, “are following who they’re bringing in,” she said, “but they may not be following their walk-ons. And there isn’t a community that is vested in who are the preferred walk-ons coming on to the volleyball team.”Meghan Dubyak, a spokeswoman for Georgetown University, said the university had fired its tennis coach, Gordon Ernst, in December 2017 after an internal investigation found he had violated university rules concerning admissions. She did not provide details. Ernst became the tennis coach at the University of Rhode Island last year. The university placed him on leave Tuesday.At U.C.L.A. Jorge Salcedo “will have no involvement with the soccer team while this matter is under review,” said Tod M. Tamberg, a spokesman for the university. “If the facts alleged are true, they represent a grave departure from the ethical standards we set for ourselves and the people who work here,” Mr. Tamberg said in a statement.The coach of the Yale soccer team was bribed at least $400,000 to recruit one student. Relatives of that applicant paid Mr. Singer $1.2 million. The coach, Rudy Meredith, stepped down in November.He told the athletics department then that “it is time to explore new possibilities and begin a different chapter in my life.”A month later, he was elected to the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame. He led the Bulldogs team to their first-ever N.C.A.A. tournament and first-ever unshared Ivy League title. Meredith did not return a request for comment at a number believed to belong to him.According to court filings, he began cooperating with the investigation in April 2018.Stanford University fired its head sailing coach, John Vandemoer, who allegedly took financial contributions to the sailing program from an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission.“Neither student came to Stanford,” a statement from Stanford said. “However, the alleged behavior runs completely counter to Stanford’s values.”No school is more deeply entwined in the scheme than U.S.C.Singer is accused of funneling more than $2 million into accounts controlled by administrators, coaches and former coaches at the school for their help in admitting his clients as student athletes, often with fabricated credentials and sometimes whether they played the sport or not.The central figure at U.S.C. is Donna Heinel, a senior administrator who for nearly a decade has overseen admissions of athletes. The affidavit charges Singer with depositing $1.3 million in U.S.C. accounts controlled by Heinel over a four-year period, and entering into a sham consulting agreement that paid her $20,000 per month beginning last July. She was fired Tuesday.The school’s water polo coach, Vavic, is accused of accepting $250,000 from Singer after two students were admitted as water polo players. Singer is also charged with making payments to a private school for Vavic’s children in the guise of a scholarship in exchange for a commitment to designate students as recruits in the future.Ali Khosroshahin, a former U.S.C. soccer coach, and Laura Janke, a former assistant, were accused of accepting $350,000 from Singer for a youth soccer club they coached in exchange for designating four students as recruits even though none of them played competitive soccer.Wake Forest volleyball coach Bill Ferguson, who arrived from U.S.C. in 2016, is charged with accepting $100,000 from Singer in exchange for helping a client’s daughter, who had been wait-listed by the school, gain admittance as a volleyball recruit.In a letter, U.S.C.’s interim president Wanda Austin said the university would “be implementing significant process and training enhancements to prevent anything like this from ever happening again. It is immensely disappointing that individuals would abuse their position at the university in this way.”The case is only the latest to rock U.S.C. The school’s football program was hit with severe N.C.A.A. sanctions in 2010 over payments made to Heisman Trophy winning running back Reggie Bush, and the basketball program is currently under investigation for the second time in the last decade. Former assistant coach Tony Bland pleaded guilty in January to accepting bribes to steer U.S.C. players to certain financial advisers.Prosecutors included in court filings a transcript of a somewhat bizarre taped exchange between Singer and Augustin Huneeus Jr., a vineyard owner in Northern California who would provide $250,000 to coaches and other sources that support water polo at U.S.C. in exchange for Coach Vavic securing his daughter’s admission.“You understand that [my daughter] is not worthy to be on that team,” Huneeus said of U.S.C.’s powerhouse water polo team.“He knows [s]he’s not coming to play, he knows all that,” Singer responded, referring to Vavic.Later, he reassured Huneeus that the arrangement would work out “because she’s a water polo player.”“But she’s not,” Huneeus said.An earlier version of this article misstated the profession of William Singer. He worked in the college counseling business; he is not an intellectual property lawyer.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Brooks BarnesLOS ANGELES — “Everything the light touches is our kingdom.”It’s a line from Disney’s “The Lion King,” spoken by Mufasa to young Simba as they sit atop Pride Rock. And on Wednesday morning, just after midnight on the East Coast, it seemed to describe the Walt Disney Company itself, as the conglomerate closed its $71.3 billion acquisition of 21st Century Fox assets. It is now an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.The ripple effects may not become clear for years. Analysts say that Disney could force smaller studios to merge as they scramble to compete. It will have greater leverage over theater owners when it comes to box office splits. And Disney’s plans to use Fox content to forcefully move into streaming could slow the growth of Netflix.“This deal definitely reshapes the landscape,” said Michael Nathanson, a leading media analyst.Disney now owns most of Rupert Murdoch’s former empire, including the 20th Century Fox movie and television studio, which includes the “X-Men,” “Avatar” and “Simpsons” franchises; Blue Sky, the “Ice Age” animation studio that is based in Connecticut; the National Geographic and FX cable networks; most of the streaming service Hulu; and Star, a fast-growing television-service provider in India.Disney had been a mere behemoth, dominating sports television through ESPN, controlling the global theme park business and running Hollywood’s No. 1 movie operation, with studios that include Marvel, Pixar and Lucasfilm. But the company decided that it needed to bulk up even more as the tech giants aggressively moved into Hollywood. The competition now includes Apple, which is scheduled to unveil its television and movie plans on Monday.“This is an extraordinary and historic moment for us,” Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, said in a statement on Tuesday.Mr. Iger has staked his legacy on this deal, and he had to fend off an aggressive play by Comcast on two continents to gain control of Mr. Murdoch’s trove. (Mr. Iger ultimately lost Sky, the British pay-television company.) The acquisition is the largest in Disney’s 96-year history, dwarfing even the 1995 purchase of Capital Cities / ABC. That cost $19 billion (about $32 billion in today’s money) and, because it included ESPN, served as a growth engine for Disney for two decades.The Fox assets are meant to do the same for Disney in the years ahead. Disney is now trying to become less dependent on cable channels like ESPN, which are in slow, steady decline owing to cord-cutting. Instead, Disney has decided to move into the rapidly growing realm of online video, a direct-to-consumer business defined by Netflix. Mr. Iger believes that the Fox assets will enhance that plan, which includes a streaming service called Disney+ later this year.“The pace of disruption has only hastened,” Mr. Iger told The New York Times in an interview when the deal was announced. “This will allow us to greatly accelerate our direct-to-consumer strategy, which is our highest priority.”The challenges are daunting. Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked. Integrating the Fox assets will bring headaches that include substantial layoffs — analysts project more than 3,000 — and the melding of two starkly different corporate cultures. When the deal was announced in December 2017, James L. Brooks, a creator of “The Simpsons,” posted an image on Twitter that showed an angry Homer Simpson strangling Mickey Mouse.To win approval from antitrust regulators around the world, Disney had to agree to modest concessions.It is already deep in the process of selling Fox’s 22 regional sports channels, a move required by the Justice Department. The Yankees teamed with Amazon this month, for instance, to buy the YES Network, which serves the New York metropolitan area, for roughly $3.5 billion. To appease European regulators, Disney agreed to divest a stake in A+E Networks, which include the History channel. (Disney will retain 50 percent ownership of the division in the United States; Hearst owns the other half.)The final sticking points came from Brazil and Mexico. Regulators in those countries are forcing Disney to sell Fox Sports, a competitor to ESPN that holds extensive rights to televise soccer matches. Brazil’s antitrust regulator, Cade, said in a statement that operating both channels would give Disney too much control of the sports TV market in the country. Mexico’s telecommunications regulator, IFT, held a similar view and added stipulations about Disney’s ownership of the National Geographic and Nat Geo Wild channels.At Disney’s annual meeting this month, Mr. Iger said the 20th Century Fox and Fox Searchlight labels — trumpet fanfares included — would continue to exist. That decision pleased Hollywood, but it could lead to consumer confusion since Mr. Murdoch retained ownership of the Fox broadcast network, a chain of local Fox television stations and his crown jewel, Fox News. Those businesses, along with the FS1 sports channel, were rolled into a new publicly traded company, Fox Corporation, on Tuesday.Paul D. Ryan, the former Republican congressman from Wisconsin who served as speaker of the House from October 2015 to January 2019, joined the Fox board on Tuesday. Other board members include Mr. Murdoch and Roland A. Hernandez, a former chief executive of Telemundo. Mr. Murdoch’s oldest son, Lachlan, serves as the new company’s chief executive.The Murdochs are expected to receive roughly $12 billion in proceeds from the Disney deal, according to Bloomberg. Shareholders in the assets that were sold to Disney had the option to accept Disney shares or cash out. Disney said on Friday that, based on initial results of that process, holders of about 52 percent of shares asked for cash and 37 percent asked for Disney shares. The balance did not make a request.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSo the mighty Frank Robinson is dead at 83.As a young kid, I was struck by the man, tall, strong, so coolly menacing at the plate, and the statistics and awards that underlined all that the eye took in: those 586 pre-steroidal home runs and the only man who won the Most Valuable Player Award in both leagues.And there were all those times he was knocked down and dusted himself off and hit a home run on the next pitch. He practically sneered as he trotted around the bases.As Sports Illustrated wrote in the 1960s, pitchers figured “the only way to deal with Robinson is to hit him before he hits you.”He was also the first black manager in baseball. He was given a crappy team, of course, an old Buick station wagon of a Cleveland Indians squad. You thought white owners would give the first black manager the keys to a Mercedes? He played designated hitter on that team and at age 39 hit nine home runs with a .508 slugging percentage in 118 at-bats.On opening day of that year, 1975, Robinson the player hit a home run for Robinson the manager.And as with all things African-American and Major League Baseball, Robinson looms as a figure out of the Mesozoic Age. Less than 8 percent of major league players are African-American, according to the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, down from a high of more than 18 percent. More damning still, there is but one manager who could be classified as African-American. Dave Roberts of the Los Angeles Dodgers is of African-American and Japanese descent (There are four Latino managers).There are 25 white managers.This is a deeply perplexing shortfall, and as it persists year after year after year like the winter and summer solstices, one can safely assume that something more than dumb chance accounts for this problem. We might look to the fact that those doing the hiring, owners and team presidents and general managers, are overwhelmingly white.Baseball men, and the vast majority are male, tend to twin talk of a dearth of minority managers with talk about trends toward analytics, as if that explains something. As Ivy League guys rule many front offices, it is said, they naturally seek managerial candidates fluent in O.B.P., WHIP, FIP, and so on and on, the arcana and language of analytics.This is silliness.Last fall, the Boston Red Sox played the Dodgers in the World Series. The manager of the Red Sox, Alex Cora, was Latino and there was the aforementioned Roberts in the other dugout. They had bested a passel of white-managed teams on the way to that affair, not one of whom possessed an advanced mathematics degree from Caltech.I put the questions of baseball analytics to Joey Cora, brother of Alex and baseball coach for decades. He had interviewed several times for manager without making the final cut.“Everyone in baseball understands the importance of statistics and analysis; we’re saturated with that,” he said. “That’s no secret anymore. You also need to know baseball and how to lead men and how to combine all of that.“Why wouldn’t we understand that?”That was a good question last October and a good question still.Robinson managed in the pre-analytics era, and few who knew him doubted his necessities when it came to understanding the facets of that game. As the Cincinnati Reds scout George Powles told Sports Illustrated, “I don’t know what his I.Q. is, but his B.Q., his baseball quotient, has always been genius.”His will was indomitable. In 1965, the Reds traded him to the Baltimore Orioles, his general manager calling him “an old 30.” The next year, his first in the American League, he won the Triple Crown, hitting .316 with 49 home runs and 122 R.B.I. That May, he faced Luis Tiant, a brilliant fireball pitcher with the Indians and a man who didn’t mind brushing back a hitter.Robinson hit a Tiant pitch 541 feet, making him the first and only man ever to hit a home run entirely out of Memorial Stadium in Baltimore. The Orioles planted a flag labeled “HERE” on the spot where the ball, still in the stratosphere, left the stadium.Baseball men tend to go on and on about their plans to attract great African-American athletes back to baseball. They might note that their lamentations coexist with a large number of retired black baseball players who never got a chance to manage baseball teams.Bump your head against a ceiling long enough, and maybe you decide there are better things to do than develop a bruise. Perhaps best to start hiring black managers and planting a flag that says HERE.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSHANGHAI — Volkswagen plans to build a fully electric sports utility vehicle (SUV) for China from 2021, taking on the Chinese market leader Tesla's Model X as the German carmaker ramps up production of zero emissions vehicles.The planned new SUV is the latest move in Volkswagen's aggressive growth strategy in China, where electric cars are given preferential treatment by authorities.VW said its ID ROOMZZ, which it presented in Shanghai on Sunday, will have three rows of seats and an operating range of up to 450 kms. The concept car is capable of a "level 4 autonomous driving", VW said.VW Chief Executive Herbert Diess said the ID ROOMZ will be the flagship electric car to be launched by Volkswagen in China."We plan to produce more than 22 million electric cars in the next 10 years," Diess said, adding that around half of VW’s engineers were working on products destined for China.Diess said the ID ROOMZ would eventually be rolled out to other markets.To enhance the VW Group's research and development capabilities, Volkswagen and its premium brand Audi will combine their R&D operations in China.VW brand’s head of e-mobility Thomas Ulbrich said the carmaker will start ramping up production of 33 electric cars by mid-2023, using VW Group’s modular electric car (MEB) platform to build electric cars for the Skoda, Seat, Audi and VW brands.Ulbrich said VW Group is converting 16 factories worldwide to enable mass production of electric vehicles, of which eight plants will be making VW branded cars. Separately, Volkswagen rival Daimler AG's Chief Executive Dieter Zetsche at an event in Shanghai on Monday unveiled what he called a concept for a compact Mercedes GLB, saying the automaker plans to add the new SUV to its lineup later this year.Zetsche promised the unveiling of a production version of the GLB with seating for seven by this summer.The announcement from Zetsche comes as Mercedes has declared 2019 the "year of the SUV", reflecting the growing popularity of such vehicles in the world's largest car market. (Reporting by Edward Taylor and Joseph White in Shanghai; Editing by Alexander Smith)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerEven in the age of streaming and cord-cutting, live sports still carry a big price tag for broadcasters.On Thursday, Major League Baseball and Fox Sports announced they had extended their national television rights agreement. The terms were not disclosed, but two people with direct knowledge of the deal said it was for seven years, through the 2028 season, and $5.1 billion.That is a significant increase over the current deal with Fox, which expires after the 2021 season and was for eight years and $4.2 billion, according to the Sports Business Journal. Bloomberg was the first to report the value of the new deal.Fox has been a national M.L.B. television rights holder since 1996 and became an exclusive national broadcaster four years later. Each year, Fox airs Saturday regular season games, the All-Star Game, and several playoff series, including the World Series. The company also broadcasts games in Spanish on Fox Deportes.The new deal calls for Fox to expand its digital baseball programming and to increase the number of regular season and postseason games broadcast starting in 2022.The average viewership for this year’s World Series, which the Boston Red Sox won in five games over the Los Angeles Dodgers, dropped by 23 percent from the 2017 World Series between the Dodgers and the Houston Astros, which lasted seven games.M.L.B. also has media rights deals with Facebook, ESPN and Turner Sports. Its current contracts with ESPN (worth $5.6 billion) and Turner Sports ($2.6 billion) run through 2021.The new television deal was part of a flurry of announcements from the M.L.B. owners’ meetings in Atlanta. M.L.B. and the players’ union also said they had reached an agreement to relax rules governing the footwear worn by players during games.In response to players’ calls for more leeway in expressing themselves on the diamond, the majority of each shoe will no longer be required to be the team’s designated primary color. Instead, players can wear shoes with the following, in any proportion: black, white, and gray; any colors on the players’ uniform; and any additional colors set by their team.“Players welcome the expanded opportunity to express themselves and engage with fans through innovative design,” Tony Clark, the executive director of the players’ union, said in a statement. “We look forward to seeing their creativity and individuality on the field in 2019.”Beginning in 2017, players were given a taste of more freedom — but only for one weekend. On Players Weekend, as it was called, they chose nicknames for their jerseys and wore whatever cleats they designed. Some players have pushed the limits with their cleats, even finding designers online to paint unique designs. This season, Cleveland’s Mike Clevinger and Chicago’s Ben Zobrist complained publicly about stern warnings or discipline they received from M.L.B. over their cleat choice or designs.One reason players, not to mention shoe companies, embraced Players Weekend is that M.L.B. has fallen behind in player promotion and self-expression, compared to other professional leagues, particularly the N.B.A.“We believe that this agreement strikes the appropriate balance between the shared goal of permitting players to express their individuality while maintaining reasonable restrictions on shoe colors and designs,” M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred said in a statement.Among the other announcements Thursday, M.L.B. said it had struck a new deal beginning next season with DAZN, an international sports streaming service launched in 2016, for a daily highlights and live look-in show. The deal is for three years and reportedly worth $300 million. DAZN’s efforts were led by John Skipper, the former ESPN president who resigned abruptly last December.In addition to the content deals, M.L.B. owners voted to give Manfred, 60, a five-year extension, through the 2024 season.Manfred was elected commissioner in August 2014 and officially replaced Bud Selig that following January. Under Manfred, the league has posted record profits, enacted pace of play measures, focused on youth and international growth, and negotiated a new collective bargaining agreement with the players’ union that went into effect in 2017.Before becoming commissioner, Manfred was M.L.B.’s chief operating officer with experience in labor relations and strengthening baseball’s drug testing program.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonThe recent roiling college admissions fraud scandal exposed how the athletic recruiting system at desirable institutions can be manipulated to grant privileged treatment even to students with fabricated athletic achievements.But for truly gifted young athletes drawn into the cryptic world of college sports recruiting, the pressure to lock up a spot at a top university can arrive as early as the seventh grade. In what has become a common, disquieting tactic in dozens of sports — from soccer to volleyball — skilled, athletic middle-schoolers are pressured by coaches offering full athletic scholarships to commit to attend institutions many years before they will fill out an admissions application.Sometimes, the offer comes with a take-it-or-leave-it deadline. And because of the pervasive obsession with getting into high-ranking colleges — and better yet, with landing a scholarship that will help cover the cost — anxious athletes and their families eagerly, if sometimes rashly, accept.“Parents are worried and panicked that those offers are going to disappear,” said Justin Sell, the athletic director at South Dakota State University and a prominent member of N.C.A.A. legislative committees. “There shouldn’t be a rush. No seventh-grader should be faced with that decision.”Now, a coalition of administrators, coaches, faculty and students have banded together to fight back against such early recruiting, and this month the N.C.A.A. is poised to prohibit early recruiting in most college sports. High-profile sports like football and basketball would be excluded.A proposal before the 40-member N.C.A.A. Division I Council, if approved by a majority during meetings April 18 and 19, would ban all recruiting contact between coaches and athletes until June 15 of the prospective student’s sophomore year in high school. Official visits to campuses by recruits could not occur before Aug. 1 after their sophomore year. Third parties, including a recruit’s family members and high school or club coaches, would also be prohibited from recruiting-related communications before June 15.Football, basketball, baseball and ice hockey would be excluded from the new guidelines because of the professional contract opportunities recruits in those sports are sometimes considering in addition to attending college, council members said. College coaches asked for the ability to communicate with the athletes as those options are being weighed.Karen Weekly, a co-head softball coach at the University of Tennessee, said her brethren had reached the breaking point on early recruiting in recent years when sixth graders had suddenly begun committing to programs in her league, the Southeastern Conference.“There was no boundary to stop it,” Weekly said. “Ten years ago, we thought sophomores committing was too young. Sixth graders? Enough is enough.”Kerstin Kimel, the women’s lacrosse coach at Duke University, explained that in the last decade some coaches had tried to gain a competitive advantage by hoarding ever younger, promising athletes before rival coaches could discover them. Kimel said the ploy had become more widespread in part because of the mania among parents eager to gain entry to leading institutions.“Savvy parents are saying, ‘If we’re early to all this recruiting, maybe that’s our shot to get into certain places,’” Kimel said.While there is broad support for establishing early-recruiting embargoes, there is, however, disagreement over substantial details within the new recruiting regulations. Two sports, lacrosse and softball, are lobbying to be excluded from the proposed N.C.A.A. legislation because they have already established their own more stringent early-recruiting rules. Two years ago, the national lacrosse coaches associations received the N.C.A.A.’s approval to prohibit recruiting contact until Sept. 1 of a student’s junior year of high school, or 11 weeks — one summer — later than the date in the N.C.A.A. proposal. With some amendments, softball adopted the lacrosse guidelines last year.“The Sept. 1 date has kept that summer before the athletes’ junior year calmer and free from recruiting and has led to a more thorough evaluation, including academically, on both sides,” said Mike Murphy, the men’s lacrosse coach at the University of Pennsylvania.Kimel noted that starting the recruiting contact on June 15 could distract a high school student during final exams and interrupt the conclusion of recruits’ spring sports seasons.Samantha J. Ekstrand, who acts as legal counsel to the lacrosse and softball coaches associations, said that in a recent poll of softball coaches, 82.5 percent were opposed to rolling back the recruiting start date to June 15.“A lot of thought went into the Sept. 1 date,” Ekstrand said. “It might not seem a big shift, but it’s a colossal shift.”The leaders of the national body that represents college athletes insisted that their constituency overwhelmingly endorses a uniform date for the start of recruiting in as many sports as possible, mostly to avoid confusion.Nicholas Clark, a former football player who is one of two college athletes elected by their peers to serve on the Division I Council, said representatives from every campus in 32 conferences were polled.“They want us to vote for the proposal,” Clark said.Blake James, the council chairman and the athletic director at the University of Miami, said he has heard from parents of high school athletes who told him they were eager to contact coaches earlier and preferred the June 15 date.“Ultimately, I don’t know exactly where we’ll end up on this,” James said. “But it will be a much better place for both youth sports and college sports.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Former Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) featherweight Artem Lobov, a long-time friend and team mate of Conor McGregor, is set to make a lucrative debut in bare-knuckle boxing as combat sports bid to gain more mainstream acceptance. Nicknamed the "Russian Hammer", Lobov told Reuters he had accepted a big payday from the Bare Knuckle Fighting Championship to fight another UFC veteran, Jason Knight, on a pay-per-view card in Biloxi, Mississippi on Saturday. "I'd be lying if I didn't tell you that money was a big factor in signing for Bare Knuckle - we're prize fighters, and our success is measured by the size of our purse," he said during a stopover in New York. Long considered the only realistic professional alternative outside of boxing for combat sports athletes, the UFC is now competing with other mixed martial arts and grappling promotions. European and Asian promotions are attracting sellout crowds, and the Bellator organization recently signed a large number of British and Irish prospects to try to make inroads in Europe. They were also on the trail of Lobov when he was released from the UFC in January."They made a very nice offer, a lot more than I was getting in the UFC, but it did not match the offer that Bare Knuckle made. With Bare Knuckle, I can also accept other offers as long as it doesn't interfere with their schedule, so it's a win-win for me," the 32-year-old said. "I get to go in, fight bare-knuckle, make a lot of money, hopefully build a better name for myself and then see what else is out there."FRONT FOOTThough he has a losing professional record of 14 wins and 15 losses, Lobov is hugely popular with fans due to his fearless style of fighting off his front foot and his toughness, with 12 of his MMA losses coming by decision. Lobov brushes aside the suggestion that bare-knuckle boxing is more primitive than MMA. "It might seem that way, but getting hit with a bare knuckle is not as raw as getting hit with a bare knee, or getting kicked with a shin to your head, which I have been a few times," he said. "In that sense, it's nothing."I truly, truly love fighting, so that's not an issue for me. It's like saying to a swimmer, 'Do you mind getting wet?' Of course not, he's a swimmer," he said. Lobov credits Irishman McGregor, the former UFC featherweight and lightweight champion, with bringing combat sports into the mainstream in the U.S. and enabling him and many others to make a living as fighters. "In many ways it is thanks to Conor, for sure, and it's definitely a lot better than before, but the best times are still ahead of us," Lobov said. "Ten years ago I fought a top-10 European fighter on four days' notice for 400 pounds, and to go from that to where I am now, earning six figures for a fight? Certainly, I see the improvements in the sport."Though delighted to have a chance to test his boxing without the threat of kicks or takedowns, Lobov will be back in the MMA cage soon. "I always seek the biggest challenge and MMA is the biggest challenge. I'm still grappling, I'm still wrestling and doing everything," he said. "I want to improve and to achieve many, many things in MMA, boxing and bare-knuckle boxing."  (Reporting by Philip O'Connor, editing by Ed Osmond)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNotedSmokers are customizing their trendy vape pens with purple glitter, fake designer labels and even 18-karat gold.By Steven KurutzMichael Saiger doesn’t smoke e-cigarettes, but many of his friends like Juul, so he began to tinker with designs to make it feel more elegant. “Back in the day, people used to have a beautiful Cartier lighter, or a really cool monogrammed lighter,” said Mr. Saiger, the founder and creative director of Miansai, a jewelry company known for men’s bracelets. “I wanted something that feels nostalgic paired to something that’s new and modern.”Last month, Miansai began selling a handcrafted 18-karat gold case designed to slip over Juul’s e-cigarette device. The cost of the Juul itself? About $35. The cost of the gold case? $5,000.Mr. Saiger’s blingy design represents the very high end of a burgeoning marketplace for so-called skins to dress up an off-the-shelf vaporizer. Dozens of companies sell wraps for e-cigarette devices through eBay, Etsy, Amazon or their own websites. They include Eonsmoke, Juul Necessities and J-Wraps, which allows for the option to design your own skin.One common trait among them is the focus on Juul, which by some estimates owns 60 percent of the e-cigarette marketplace and is wildly popular among young people. (Perhaps too popular: The Food and Drug Administration has criticized Juul and other makers for marketing their products in ways that appeal to teenagers. Last month, the agency conducted a surprise inspection of Juul’s headquarters in San Francisco. And this week, the company said it will restrict sales of nearly all its flavored pods to the internet, to help prevent use by teens).Juul itself has nothing to do with this aftermarket business. Victoria Davis, a spokeswoman for the company, said, “We do not make, market or endorse these accessories.” The Juul system, she added, “is intended for current adult smokers only who want to switch from combustible cigarettes.”Juul’s slim black vaporizer, which resembles an elongated flash drive, has been praised for its sleek design. But the company doesn’t offer its customers much in the way of personalization, beyond a few primary colors like black, silver and limited-edition turquoise.Earlier this year, Matt Broderick, who is 22 and “into the whole vaping scene,” spotted an opportunity in the marketplace. A manager at a print shop in Boca Raton, Fla., Mr. Broderick and his colleagues began making Juul skins.Sold under the brand Vaper Skins, the printed vinyl covers are priced around $7 to $12, similar to other skins. Designs include purple glitter, gray camouflage and Jazz cup. “We try to stick with whatever trends are out at the moment,” Mr. Broderick said. “Right now, I’m working on one with a Trump and Kanye cartoon.”The gold case from Miansai is beyond the budget of most college students, or most other e-cigarette users for that matter. Mr. Saiger has also designed a sterling silver model that sells for $1,000. He has sold 10 silver cases and one gold so far, he said.“People vape, and then they put it in their pocket,” Mr. Saiger said. “With a case like this, you’d want to put it on a table. It’s a statement.”So is the gold glitter skin offered by Vaper Skins. It’s $9.99 for a pack of two.Steven Kurutz joined The Times in 2011 and wrote for the City and Home sections before joining Style. He was previously a reporter at The Wall Street Journal and Details.  @skurutz AdvertisementJames changed the literary landscape with her blockbuster erotica trilogy, “Fifty Shades of Grey.” Now she is trying something (sort of) new.James has gone from being an anonymous writer posting fantasies online, to running her own small empire of kink.CreditCreditAna Cuba for The New York TimesSupported byBy Alexandra AlterLONDON — E L James does not like speaking to journalists, who often want to know deeply personal things, like how much money she makes and whether she has a sex dungeon in her basement.Her aversion to publicity can be inconvenient, and somewhat impractical. As one of the world’s most famous and in-demand authors, she must occasionally submit to public interrogations, particularly when she has a new book to promote. But she’s not happy about it.“She hates it,” her agent, Valerie Hoskins, tells me ominously on the phone a week before James and I meet.Normally, this sort of stance — a notch more hostile than a celebrity’s typical ambivalence toward nosy reporters — would make for an uncomfortable interview. But when James greets me at her bright, airy home in Ealing, a placid suburban borough in west London where she lives with her husband, the writer Niall Leonard, and their two Westies, she doesn’t seem remotely ill at ease, at least not outwardly. She suggests we sit in her enormous, spotless kitchen overlooking the garden for coffee and croissants before we move to her office to talk about her new romance novel, “The Mister,” and suggests the pastries will be better with apricot jam. She talks about her sons, ages 22 and 24, and TV shows she’s obsessed with (“Game of Thrones” and “Stranger Things”). She laments her lack of hobbies after I ask her what she does in her spare time, when she’s not writing or running the elaborate business of being E L James. She can’t think of anything she does for fun.“I need to get a hobby,” she says. “Writing used to be my hobby.”Over the past eight years, that hobby has morphed into a billion-dollar entertainment franchise, and James has gone from being an anonymous writer posting lusty fantasies online, to an erotica industry mogul who’s running her own small empire of kink.When James first released “Fifty Shades of Grey” through a small Australian press in 2011, she hoped to sell a few thousand copies and prevent online copycats from stealing her work. Instead, her erotic trilogy went on to sell more than 150 million copies worldwide, and was translated into roughly 50 languages, including Arabic and Mongolian. The series was adapted into a feature film series that grossed more than $1 billion globally, which James co-produced. It helped popularize niche sexual fetishes involving bondage and anal plugs, bringing them from the fringes into the mainstream.“It’s still a bit of a shock to me,” says James, who comes across in person as funny, casually profane and surprisingly unguarded. “I’ve been looking at it going, what the hell happened?”Overseeing a wildly successful multimedia franchise left little time for James’s one-time hobby, writing. On top of that, James, who is 56, faced impossible expectations set by her blockbuster debut, as ravenous fans kept clamoring for more sequels. Inevitably, many of her readers will be disappointed by any story that doesn’t involve the dominant-submissive relationship between the sadomasochistic billionaire Christian Grey and his demure conquest Anastasia Steele, who becomes his willing sexual servant.So it’s taken her a while to write something new.“I’m incredibly nervous about it,” she says. “There are other stories I want to tell. I’ve been with these two for so long.”With “The Mister,” her first new work of original fiction since she became an international phenomenon, James hopes to inaugurate a new phase of her career. Her latest work is a tame (by comparison) love story set mostly in contemporary London and Cornwall, featuring a wealthy British aristocrat who falls for his house cleaner, a beautiful, mysterious young woman who fled Albania. In Hollywood pitch terms, it’s like a porny mash-up of “Cinderella” and “Downton Abbey.”James traveled to Albania twice to research the novel, and collected a small library of books about the country, including an Albanian dictionary, a guide to Albanian social codes and laws, and a book about Albanian organized crime. Her husband, who’s the household cook, learned to make traditional Albanian stews.It was quite a change from the research she did for “Fifty Shades,” which involved lurking in some of the darker corners of the internet, scrolling through websites devoted to sexual bondage techniques and accessories. For fans who are expecting another story involving gags, whips and safe words, “The Mister” may come as a let down. The sex scenes are explicit and extensive, but are not nearly as transgressive and boundary-pushing as “Fifty Shades.”But James had other narrative objectives beyond titillation. Beneath the frothy fantasy, “The Mister” deals with unexpectedly weighty topics like economic inequality, the plight of undocumented workers, the oppression of women in conservative societies and the way social institutions and governments elevate the wealthy and powerful and exploit the vulnerable.Those themes feel particularly relevant in Britain these days, as the country’s contortions over Brexit have exposed ugly divisions over race, class and British identity. James has become preoccupied with these issues lately, particularly since she has fallen unexpectedly into wealth, and seen firsthand how society is weighted in favor of the rich. “It’s important for me to put some of this in,” she said. “As an incredibly wealthy person, you keep the money.” James is a passionate Remainer who wants Britain to stay within the European Union, a position she broadcasts unabashedly on social media even though she knows she risks alienating some fans. The issue has come up repeatedly in interviews she’s given about “The Mister,” including with French and Norwegian media outlets.She’s anticipating a backlash, in part because we live in such polarizing times, but also because she’s come to expect scrutiny of everything she does.“Being a successful, middle-aged, overweight woman, people are so angry that you’re stepping out of line,” she said. “Sometimes it really gets me down.”Before her name became synonymous with super-hardcore bondage erotica, James, whose real name is Erika Mitchell, worked for several decades in television, as a production executive at the BBC and other companies. She grew up in Buckinghamshire, where her father worked as a cameraman for the BBC and her mother, who emigrated from Chile, worked as a sales representative. She studied history at the University of Kent, then got a job at the National Film and Television School. She and Leonard, a screenwriter and novelist, met there, and married in 1987.Romance was always her escape. To entertain herself on her daily commute to work, she read everything from steamy historical romances involving lascivious dukes and earls to lesbian bondage fiction.Then she discovered “Twilight,” Stephenie Meyer’s chaste teen vampire romance. Like so many other “Twi-hards,” James started writing her own explicit take on the story, and published it online, under the name Snowqueens Icedragon. For reasons that are still baffling to James, her work went viral.She changed the characters’ names to avoid copyright infringement, and in 2011 a small Australian publishing house agreed to publish it.Within a year, James was engulfed by a frenzy that she calls “the great madness.”Big publishing houses and film studios began courting her. One publisher wanted to change the novel’s covers to feature a bare-chested man. Another said it took too long to get to the sex.Anne Messitte, the publisher of Vintage and Anchor Books, won James over when she said the novels should be stocked at the front of bookstores, not buried in the erotica section. Vintage constructed a complex deal, which transferred publishing rights from the Australian publisher, while simultaneously buying the underlying rights from James. The company paid a seven-figure sum for the trilogy, and ordered a 750,000-copy first print run. Universal Pictures bought the film rights for a reported $5 million, outmanuevering several other studios that were offering multimillion-dollar deals.The books sold so quickly in Britain that the printers ran out of silver ink for the iconic black and metallic gray covers, which James designed herself. In the United States, Vintage printed more than a million copies a week to meet demand, overwhelming its paper suppliers. “We couldn’t get enough paper,” Messitte said. “It felt somewhat surreal.”At book signings, fans wept, which in turn made James cry (her publicist always carries boxes of tissues on tour). In Portland, Ore., a local TV news crew chased her car through the streets.James was bewildered by her overnight success. From the beginning, she told her agent she didn’t want to be famous. “I said, it’s not my fault, you wrote the bloody books, not me,” her agent, Hoskins, recalled.The series altered the literary landscape, paving the way for more boundary-pushing erotica, and changed the way that major retailers and entertainment companies catered to female desire. Sales of sex toys surged. Target began selling “Fifty Shades” lubricant, vibrating rings and blindfolds.James became a taboo-breaking evangelist for certain kinds of sexual fantasies that women were often silent about, or ashamed of.“It was not just her tapping into something, she commercialized it,” said Anne Jamison, an associate professor of English at the University of Utah, who studies fan fiction.James struck licensing agreements for everything from “Fifty Shades”-branded wine and lingerie to floggers, vibrators and handcuffs, and oversaw the development of many of these items herself. Perhaps most incongruously, she even licensed a “Fifty Shades” teddy bear, who comes with mini handcuffs and a blindfold. “We set about trademarking things just to stop people from making them,” she tells me in her office, which is festooned with “Fifty Shades” paraphernalia — poster-sized images of the covers, a toy helicopter modeled after Christian Grey’s, one of the infamous teddy bears. “You don’t want someone to do it badly.”James wants to show me some nipple clamps she helped design in collaboration with the sex-toy maker Lovehoney, a British company that produced a line of Fifty Shades-themed erotic accessories. Lovehoney had first proposed some heavy, industrial-looking clamps, which James rejected.“They looked like they could jump start Frankenstein,” James says. She asked the company to “make them pretty,” and the next iteration satisfied her.James calls to her assistant in the adjacent room, who brings us the delicate rose-gold clamps.“Do not ask me to demonstrate,” she says dryly as she hands them to James.Around half past noon, a car arrives to drive James to a photo shoot at a hotel in Kensington, for an upcoming feature in You, a magazine for The Mail on Sunday. In the car, James offers an unsolicited critique of the first “Fifty Shades” film, which she felt failed to capture the allure of the novel. Her agent, who’s been an otherwise unobtrusive chaperone, gently interjects and suggests she move on to another topic. On the sidewalk in front of the hotel, Charlotte Bush, the director of publicity for Arrow, James’s British publishing house, greets James effusively and shows off her manicured nails, which she had painted hot pink to match the lettering on the cover of “The Mister.”“The talent is here!” Bush calls out as she guides James to a makeshift dressing room, where hairstylists and makeup artists spring into action and begin ministering to her.“All this fuss, it’s lovely,” James says. “I’m sort of a minimal fuss kind of person.”“That’s because you’re a writer,” the makeup artist responds.James sifts through a rack of evening gowns that the stylists brought for her to choose from. She dismisses one as “very matronly.” Another is “very kaftan-y,” another “too print-y.” James examines another glittery gown: “That looks a bit too…”“Sequin-y,” one of the stylists concludes.In the end, James chooses a dress of her own that she brought from home, a long blue gown with a deep V-neck, which she bought for one of the “Fifty Shades” movie premieres.As the frenzied makeover continues, Bush, James’s publicist, wants to discuss some potential viral marketing stunts to promote “The Mister.” One of her ideas, which was quickly discarded, was to beam a pink light from a lighthouse in Cornwall, a coastal county where some of the steamiest scenes of the novel take place. But “the lighthouse people” objected, since a hot pink lighthouse could pose a hazard to ships, Bush says.James agrees it isn’t worth causing a nautical disaster. “The lighthouse idea is very sweet, but not if it endangers life,” James says.The publicist’s next suggestion is less perilous. She proposes hiring a pianist to play in the middle of Sloane Square, since the novel’s heroine is a piano prodigy. James loves the idea.“A female pianist then?” Bush asks.“Definitely,” James replies.“I’m on it,” Bush says, pecking at her phone.James gently suggests that she makes sure the piano is tuned.After the photo shoot, James sips a Negroni at the hotel bar, blissfully anonymous. She rarely gets recognized by strangers, and jokes that she wants to start a spy agency staffed by middle-aged women.“You can go absolutely anywhere, you’re invisible,” she says.She worries that the coming publicity blitz for “The Mister” will leave her too exposed. Not long ago, a fan approached her in public, which she took as a bad sign.“It happened the other day and I thought, I’ve been doing too much telly,” she said earlier, using an expletive.It’s unclear how James’s readers will respond to “The Mister,” and whether their devotion to the author transcends their love of Christian Grey and a bottomless appetite for more of the same story. Other mega-best-selling authors, including Stephenie Meyer and J.K. Rowling, have switched genres and rebranded themselves after ending their successful fantasy franchises, and have retained just a fraction of their audience.James seems to have nearly exhausted her own appetite for “Fifty Shades.” She’s written a paranormal romance — a ghost story set in contemporary London — which she hopes to publish, and is contemplating a sequel to “The Mister.” “There’s so many ideas and everyone’s like, oh, go back to what you’ve been doing for the last 10 years,” she says.But readers have taken matters into their own hands, ensuring the story will continue, whether James writes it or not. On websites like fanfiction.net and Wattpad, amateur writers have posted tens of thousands of stories based on “Fifty Shades.” James says she doesn’t read them, but she acknowledges that it’s only fitting for fans to take over.“Those characters feel like they belong to everyone now,” she says. “This was born of fandom.”Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.
   @xanalter    @xanalter AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byI wanted to face childbirth with an athlete’s strength, confidence and determination. So I turned to sports psychology for advice.By Serena SolomonAny woman who has ever carried and birthed a child, in whatever fashion, deserves her own ESPN highlight reel — blood, sweat, tears and the eventual triumph of holding her newborn baby. To be clear, childbirth isn’t a game. You can’t plead with the referee when you don’t like a call or leave the field when you’re tired. Still, as a lifelong athlete, I saw childbirth, especially an unmedicated one, as the ultimate challenge of physical endurance, mental stamina and my ability to handle pain.When I became pregnant in January 2018 and set about preparing for the monumental task of birthing a human, I loaded up on prenatal vitamins, kept a daily routine of birthing stretches and exercises, and endured an eight-week birthing course. An image of the lead female competitors in the New York City Marathon, who bring me to tears when they run past my Brooklyn apartment each year, filled me with confidence for labor. Washboard-like abs. Lean legs showing off every strand of muscle. Calm, focused and confident expressions on their faces.However, as my due date came near, I clung to a fear of pain and the unknowns out of my control. How long would my labor be? Would my mind fall apart? What if my pelvis wasn’t the optimal shape or I stopped dilating?I wanted to face childbirth with the same kind of confidence that radiated from the runners I admired. So I turned to sports psychology for advice.The field typically uses a hodgepodge of methods like cognitive behavioral therapy and attention control training to improve athletic performance and competitor experience. It suits a laboring woman because it can quickly provide practical tools to achieve a specific goal, said Jay-Lee Nair, a Singapore-based sports psychologist who works with athletes, including professional golfers and Olympic sailors, as well as women preparing for labor. A simple strategy could be mimicking an athlete’s pregame routine like reciting affirmations “reminding them about their game plan or the attitude they want to have,” she said.To help me labor like an Olympian, Dr. Nair challenged my unhelpful birth beliefs with rational facts. In the sports context, an unhelpful thought could be “believing a win in a tournament was because of luck or lesser skilled competitors,” she said.I have a fear of operations and for me, undergoing a cesarean would take more guts than an unmedicated labor. Dr. Nair advised me to gather positive cesarean stories for a process called cognitive restructuring, in which fact-based alternative statements dispute the irrational belief. I was under the impression that a mother could not pick up her child for six weeks after a cesarean, but many of my friends assured me that they could within days.“It is hard just like a natural birth is hard, and you’re still amazing for going through that,” Dr. Nair said.Joan Steidinger, a sports psychologist based in the Bay Area and a former ultramarathon runner, told me to develop a mindfulness plan by identifying the extremely difficult moments in labor — the 45-minute cab ride to the hospital under the onslaught of contractions topped my list — and to design a predetermined meditation for each. She used this strategy when she prepared runners for the Western States 100-Mile Endurance Run, in which the track goes through canyons with stagnant 110-degree air. “You might visualize a cool waterfall, something to take your mind off the situation,” said Dr. Steidinger.I still wondered how athletes reframe their minds if something doesn’t go as planned mid-competition. How does a figure skater shift from aiming for gold to finishing her four-minute routine with dignity when she doesn’t land a jump that took months of practice? “What we usually do is create some kind of action they do to refocus because an action connects mind and body,” said Caroline Silby, a former figure skater turned sports psychologist. That could mean pushing down on the ice or drawing a deep breath to move beyond failure, Dr. Silby said.The physical cue I developed to help me reframe mid-labor started with clenched fists during an inhale and then opening them during an exhale, with my palms up in a surrender. I would surrender to the difficult moments or to whatever my body needed for a safe birth, whether that was every intervention under the sun or nothing at all.The idea of pain with a purpose is common in sports and labor. So are breathing techniques and visualizations to cope. Visualizations didn’t do it for me, but breathing did. During my birth class, I figured out what I liked — a long, loud exhale where I focused on the vibrating hum inside my mouth. I practiced this a few times each week while holding a piece of ice (it’s surprisingly painful). Dr. Silby added a tip: Stay present and enjoy the rest between contractions, much as a marathon runner turns a downhill section into active recovery. “If you’re anticipating the next painful push during recovery, that is a waste,” she said.After an anxious and tearful 13 days beyond my due date, contractions started on a Monday evening. Labor quickly became a familiar rhythm, not unlike my favorite workout of high-intensity interval training where, say, a minute of squats is followed by a 20-second break.By 3 a.m., my contractions were down to three minutes apart, our cue to head to the hospital. Excitement. Anticipation. And then my labor stalled. I used my physical cue — releasing clenched fists — again and again to move beyond the disappointment.My mind held it together until around midday. Why did my stupid body slow the contractions? At the same physical and mental crossroads in a soccer match, I would have raised my hand for a substitution so a more energized teammate could finish what I started. But this was labor. I was the only one who could birth this baby.After some bleeding at 2 p.m., my obstetrician advised me to come into the hospital. I assumed I had hours left and that beautiful thought “epidural” appeared on the horizon. However, my body had other ideas.When I got in the cab, my contractions were 10 minutes apart. When I got out, the contractions were coming every two minutes and my water had broken (yes, in the cab). Minutes later I was in a labor room. I pushed, the obstetrician pulled, my doula held my leg back and my mom propped my head up. It was freeing to finally enlist some brute strength.After almost 24 hours of labor, and half an hour of pushing, just 90 minutes after arriving at the hospital I had my slimy, alert and, at 9 pounds, 8 ounces, very large son.The strategies borrowed from sports psychology got me somewhat gracefully through labor. But they are not foolproof. Like Serena Williams at this year’s United States Open final, even elite athletes have their trying moments. I did, too, just as I entered the homestretch of my labor.Less than two weeks after the birth, I stood on the stoop to watch the New York City Marathon, holding my sleepy newborn. The lead women ran by at their cracking pace, elegant and forceful. A tunnel of spectators along the avenue celebrated them. As usual, I had tears in my eyes. But this year, I felt that I was in their elite league.Serena Solomon is an Australian journalist based in New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCities should treat rising rents like pollution and tax the companies that cause it.By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim is a journalist.On Wednesday, Microsoft announced a commitment of $500 million “to advance affordable housing solutions” in the greater Seattle area. While it was striking for the company to acknowledge how supremely difficult it is for “lower- and middle-income workers to afford to live close to where they work,” 95 percent of its commitment would be in the form of loans to housing developers, much of it for market-rate housing that will benefit more-affluent residents.What is needed in Seattle — as well as San Francisco; Austin, Tex.; New York City; Boulder, Colo.; and other urban areas where the rapid influx of high-paid tech workers has made housing unaffordable for nearly everyone else — isn’t a corporate takeover of housing policy but, rather, a per-employee “head tax” that would fund real investments in affordable housing, which should be a public good.The notion of a head tax isn’t unprecedented, even in Seattle. In May 2018, faced with a crisis of homelessness and housing insecurity, the Seattle City Council levied a fee of $275 per employee on corporations whose annual revenues exceed $20 million — the most conspicuous of which is Amazon. (Microsoft is based in nearby Redmond, Wash.) The tax would have raised a modest but useful sum to build affordable housing units and fund social services. But just weeks later, after Amazon hinted that it might leave Seattle altogether, the Council voted overwhelmingly to reverse its decision.It was a terrible loss for Seattle’s housing advocates, who were hoping for a systemic response to doubling rents, inhumanely fast evictions (Washington State has a three-day notice period) and a rise in the number of families living in their cars. And they were not reassured when, a few months after killing the head tax, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, announced that he would pay a minimum wage of $15 per hour to all of its United States workers, a boost to low-wage warehouse and cafeteria workers. But in Seattle, where the minimum wage is now $16 for big employers, low wages cannot buy decent housing. The average rent in Seattle was nearly $2,000 in 2017, and nearly half of all renters spent more than 30 percent of their incomes on housing. For many workers, $15 or even $20 an hour, at 40 or 50 hours a week, means couch-surfing. At a deeper level, by rejecting taxation but agreeing to a wage increase, Amazon seemed to imply that corporations, rather than the government, should dictate the terms of redistribution. The same is true of Microsoft’s $500 million pledge: It subordinates public policy to a we-alone-can-fix-it hubris. Rather than becoming landlords, tech giants should pay their fair share. More and more cities are pushing them to do so. In November, voters in San Francisco approved Proposition C, a tax on large businesses that will fund homeless services. Down the peninsula, residents of East Palo Alto, where Amazon recently leased 214,000 square feet of office space for 1,300 new employees, approved a parcel tax on large plots of commercial real estate. In Google’s hometown, Mountain View, 70 percent of voters said yes to a per-employee tax to fund transportation and affordable housing. These California cities are providing the rest of the United States with a template to address the housing crisis: local, targeted taxes on large companies that employ a significant proportion of high earners. Such taxes could be based on square footage, the number of employees or even workers’ salary range, and would apply to any industry — not just tech — that puts pressure on the local housing market by suddenly hiring thousands of highly paid employees. Such measures do not make “businesses, pay a price for creating jobs,” as corporations opposing the Seattle head tax claimed. They are a tax on negative externalities — something akin to a pollution tax. A half-century ago, it seemed inconceivable that factories, smelters or power plants should have to account for the toxins they released into the air. But we have since accepted the idea that businesses should pay the public for the negative externalities they cause. Today, corporations must answer for increased rents and evictions, and for worsening traffic jams. Like air and water pollution, these costs are shared by all of us.Modestly taxing gentrification is unlikely to drive tech companies into suburbia; their employees increasingly prefer the amenities of city life. It’s true that a head tax could make one place less desirable than another — Amazon played off that fear with its implied threat to leave Seattle — but the answer is not for cities to give up billions of dollars in tax incentives. A better approach is for all metropolitan areas that are being transformed by the extremes of corporate wealth to enact redistributive policies focused on housing justice. There are many possible solutions: Across the country, local advocates are pushing for increased housing subsidies, rent-stabilization laws, renter protections to prevent arbitrary eviction, permanently affordable public and private housing, community land trusts, and free legal representation and emergency funds to prevent tenants from being evicted. Some combination of these measures, deployed on a large scale — and funded through corporate taxes — is needed to address what is so clearly a crisis.Call it a head tax or a luxury tax. But recognize what is behind it: the rapid rise of companies employing tens of thousands of high-earning workers has caused, and will continue to cause, displacement. This has happened in the Seattle area and Silicon Valley, and it will soon happen in Long Island City and Northern Virginia, where Amazon will add two new headquarters. Unaffordable rents are not a personal failing or an inevitable outcome of the market; they are a corporate externality as toxic as smog or acid rain.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaABU DHABI — The message to the D.J. was short and to the point: no Arabic music.That was the edict from the organizers of the Asian Cup match here on Thursday, an attempt to limit even the opportunity for a flash point in the first soccer match between Saudi Arabia and Qatar since the start of a bitter political feud nearly two years ago. The dispute, and the Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, has so divided countries in the region that even the prematch music at the tournament is now viewed through that prism.At other matches at the Asian Cup, the most important soccer event on the sprawling continent, the soundtrack has included music from the participating countries. That was not the case Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium, where the sound system blasted western dance music in an effort to avoid even the risk of inflaming tensions between rival supporters.In the case of Qatar, that support was limited to a Korean woman, a male student from China and band of Omanis who arrived during the second half after acquiring free tickets. Almost no Qatari fans have traveled to the tournament amid the blockade of the tiny emirate by a Saudi-led group of its neighbors, including the United Arab Emirates, that has made travel extremely difficult — and entry into the U.A.E. close to impossible.In the end, in front of a stadium that was mostly empty — despite Saudi officials’ handing out free tickets and bussing in fans — Qatar was a comfortable 2-0 winner. The game was largely tension-free until Qatar’s exuberant on-field celebrations led to a minor skirmish with a despondent Saudi striker, one of few players from his team who did not head straight to the dressing room after the referee blew the final whistle.Coaches from both teams had tried to play down the political cloud that had hung over Thursday’s game since the teams were drawn into the same first-round group months ago. After the game, they steered a similar course, brushing aside any questions related to matters out of their control, and instead focusing on the challenges awaiting them in the knockout rounds. Qatar, which won the group, will face Iraq; Saudi Arabia faces a more difficult game against Japan, a regional power.“It has nothing to do with football so I won’t give a response,” Juan Antonio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach said in response to a question about the off-field tension. Félix Sánchez, Qatar’s Spanish coach, conceded only that hearing his team’s national anthem roundly jeered by most of the fans was a “difficult moment” for his players, but he concluded the game was played in a positive spirit on the field.Controversy flared outside the lines, however. Local organizers were said to have reacted with fury after a commentator on the Qatar-owned network beIN Sports mentioned the blockade during the live broadcast of an earlier Iran-Iraq game. In response, the Saudi Sports Media Federation released a statement Thursday accusing beIN, which is broadcasting the tournament across the Middle East, of using its exclusive rights to push its political agenda.The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, and that divide was visible in the stands. Behind the goal where Almoez Ali, the tournament’s top scorer, delivered the first of his two goals for Qatar, three men stood for the entire match, holding aloft two flags, one a Saudi one and the other Emirati, fused together.Saudi efforts to boost crowd numbers included commandeering two desks at the entrance of the Bab al Qasr hotel, situated yards from the U.A.E.’s presidential palace. There, officials armed with fist-sized stacks of tickets, distributed them for free to fans — whether Saudi or not — with only one request: Support Saudi Arabia.The efforts largely fell flat. The attendance was declared at just over 16,000, though the actual number of fans appeared far lower. Qatar had almost none: a Qatar soccer federation spokesman said as many as 2,000 fans would have made the trip in normal times. In the end, Qatar had to make do with a small and curious collection of followers that included Janko Yang, a 23-year-old Chinese student who grew fond of Qatar’s soccer team after its under-23 squad visited his hometown, Changzhou, last year.At the other end of the stadium, Mary Lee, the Korean communications worker who has become relatively well-known around the team, had somehow snagged a seat in the media area. Sporting a silk dress she had made in the maroon and white colors of Qatar’s flag — a direct challenge to rules that forbid public support of Qatar in the U.A.E. — Lee, 45, vowed to stay at the tournament until her adopted country completes its run. (Asked to change clothing by security officials before she attended the tournament opener between the U.A.E. and Bahrain, Lee has been given dispensation to wear her elaborate outfit only at Qatar’s games.)The most voluble support, though, came from the group of Omanis who had raced across the city after watching their team clinch berth in the knockout rounds with a 3-1 victory over Turkmenistan. Beneficiaries of the free Saudi tickets, they cheered Qatar’s players as they celebrated their victory. Oman has historically enjoyed a friendly relationship with all its neighbors, and has adopted a neutral role in the Gulf dispute.“We are like one country, we are one people in the Gulf, and we are cheering for them because they haven’t got fans here,” said Abdullah Moqubuli, 30, before adding that he and his friends would have cheered for Saudi Arabia, too, had the Saudis managed to score a goal.Sánchez, Qatar’s coach, acknowledged their contribution after the match.“We appreciated it and we want to thank them because it’s important to us to have also some people with the team,” he said. Qatar’s captain, Hassan al-Haydos, had a similar message for Yang, the Chinese student.“I’d like to thank him, and tell him to come to the next game,” al-Haydos said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersROME — New Zealander Mitch Evans gave Jaguar a first Formula E victory on Saturday in a red-flagged race in Rome that made him the seventh different winner from seven teams in seven rounds this season.Belgian Jerome d'Ambrosio returned to the top in the all-electric series on 65 points, one clear of Portugal's previous leader Antonio Felix da Costa.The top nine in the championship are now separated by just 13 points, with Evans moving up to fourth on 61 after his first Formula E triumph and Germany's Andre Lotterer third on 62."I'm speechless. It's been a tough couple of seasons," said Evans, a winner in GP2 (now Formula Two) in 2016."It's been a long time coming but honestly it's so worth it. Everyone's worked their hearts out. I've been here from the start so it just feels really special," added the 24-year-old.His manager, Australian former F1 driver Mark Webber, was on hand to witness the breakthrough.Lotterer finished runner-up for DS Techeetah after starting on pole position, with Belgian Stoffel Vandoorne third for HWA in a first Formula E podium for the former McLaren Formula One driver.The race was stopped early on after the narrow street circuit in the city's EUR district was completely blocked by a pile-up.Argentine Jose-Maria Lopez crashed at Turn 17 and his Dragon car was hit by Gary Paffett's HWA, the Briton in turn being rammed from behind by reigning champion Jean-Eric Vergne's Techeetah.Lotterer led the re-start, after a 45-minute delay, but Evans passed him with an aggressive move into the tight Turn 11 chicane after activating his car's 'attack mode' for a power boost."We all know Andre's pretty hard to pass so I had to become a little bit creative," said Evans, who missed the attack mode sensors on his second run through the zone and had to try a third time.The top two ran nose-to-tail, with Lotterer unable to find a way past when his attack mode was activated and making contact as both fought for position while also trying to save power to the finish."He drove a great race and it was a nice battle. He was just quicker," said Lotterer, who finished 0.979 seconds behind Evans. Britain's Sam Bird was a first-lap casualty but the delay gave Virgin Racing the time to fix the car and get him back out. The previous championship leader finished 11th and dropped to eighth on 54 points. (Writing by Alan Baldwin in London, editing by Clare Fallon)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAs vaping grows more popular, especially among teens, here are answers to some basic questions about its health effects.By Jan HoffmanThe term “electronic cigarette” refers to a battery-powered device that heats a tank or cartridge of liquid usually containing nicotine, flavorings and other chemicals, but not the cancer-causing tar found in tobacco cigarettes. Users inhale and exhale the vapor. The devices come in numerous shapes, including ones that look like pens, flash drives and hookahs. Many consumers are confused about the health implications of e-cigarettes. This is a primer about what research so far shows about these devices.Yes. But that does not mean they are safe. E-cigarettes contain far fewer dangerous chemicals than those released in burning tobacco. Tobacco cigarettes typically contain 7,000 chemicals, including nearly 70 known to be carcinogenic. E-cigarettes also don’t release tar, the tobacco residue that damages lungs but also contributes to the flavor of tobacco products. In the United States, cigarettes are associated with 480,000 deaths a year from coronary heart disease, stroke and numerous cancers, among other illnesses.The research on e-cigarettes is young because the products have only been around for a little over a decade. Exacerbated by the voltage of a given device, certain e-cigarette flavors  can irritate the airways, researchers say: benzaldehyde (added to cherry flavored liquids), cinnamaldehyde (gives cinnamon flavor), and diacetyl (a buttery flavor that can cause lung tissue damage called “popcorn lung.”) Some flavors become irritants when added to vaping liquids. The process of turning liquid chemicals into vapor releases harmful particulates deep into the lungs and atmosphere, including heavy metals. It’s unclear. The Food and Drug Administration has not yet approved the marketing of e-cigarettes as smoking cessation aids. Observational studies of their effectiveness reveal mixed results. Some show that a majority of adult users are former smokers, suggesting the devices are useful in helping them quit. Others reveal that many e-cigarette users also smoke conventional cigarettes. Still others say that a large percentage of e-cigarette users, particularly teenagers, never smoked traditional cigarettes. A 2018 study concluded that e-cigarettes did not help smokers quit at rates faster than smokers who did not use them. But this summer, a British Parliament committee resoundingly endorsed them, even going so far as to suggest that e-cigarettes be made available by prescription through the National Health Service.Nicotine is not known to cause cancer. It is a stimulant and a sedative, helping to release dopamine in the brain’s pleasure centers. Some research suggests it can improve memory and concentration — although long-term smoking has been associated with cognitive decline. Inhaled nicotine can increase heart rate and blood pressure. The major cause for alarm is that nicotine is highly addictive. It is the chemical in tobacco and e-cigarettes that binds the user.The nicotine in smoking cessation aids like gum, patches and lozenges is absorbed more slowly than in cigarettes. “In tobacco smoke, the nicotine is delivered to the lungs, which have a large surface area,” said Maciej Goniewicz,a pharmacologist and toxicologist at the Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in Buffalo, N.Y. “In one or two puffs, the smoker feels the nicotine go right to brain.” The e-cigarette brand Juul in particular “seems to closely match tobacco cigarettes in terms of the speed and amount of nicotine delivery,” said Dr. Goniewicz, who studies the absorption of such chemicals.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The human brain develops into the mid-20s. Researchers worry that adolescents who vape will be most affected by nicotine addiction, which they can develop with less exposure than adults require.Though studies have not conclusively shown that e-cigarettes can be relied upon to help adult smokers quit, there is substantial evidence that teenagers who use them have a higher risk of smoking cigarettes.Teens are also using vapes to inhale marijuana. “It seems that kids who use e-cigarettes are more likely to use marijuana in general — smoked or vaped. Is there a gateway effect? We’re just getting data now. But it’s concerning,” said Dr. Rachel Boykan, an associate professor at Stony Brook medical school who researches adolescence and tobacco control.“E-cig use can be very challenging to detect because they are discreet devices that don’t emit much odor,” said Dr. Sharon Levy, director of the adolescent substance use and addiction program at Boston Children’s Hospital.Parents can look online for photos of devices and pods. If you find those items in your child’s room, pockets or backpack, “you should assume that your child is using it,” Dr. Levy said, “not ‘just holding it for a friend.’ ” If children say they have only tried e-cigarettes a few times, Dr. Levy said, ask them to stop. Then tell them you will check their room and backpack. “And then do it. Kids who have used only sporadically should be able to stop without much intervention.”There aren’t widely accepted protocols for teenagers. Dr. Levy urges families to consult a medical professional. Limited interventions with nicotine replacement therapies like patches, gum or medications may be effective in older teens, she said. But “this should be done in conjunction with a good evaluation, since mental health disorders like depression and anxiety and use of other substances are common in kids with nicotine use disorder,” she cautioned.On Dec. 5, the Food and Drug Administration is holding a public hearing to discuss possible nicotine withdrawal therapies specifically for teenagers which, if restrictions on flavored e-cigarette brands proceed, could be an imminent challenge.Jan Hoffman is a health behaviors reporter for Science, covering law, opioids, doctor-patient communication and other topics. She previously wrote about young adolescence and family dynamics for Style and was the legal affairs correspondent for Metro.  @JanHoffmanNYT AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Anemona HartocollisStandardized test scores are manufactured. Transcripts are made up. High-stakes admissions decisions are issued based on fabricated extracurricular activities, ghostwritten personal essays and the size of the check written by the parents of the applicant.[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]American universities are often cast as the envy of the world, august institutions that select the best and the brightest young people after an objective and rigorous selection process.But the bribery scandal unveiled by the Justice Department this week — and a number of other high-profile cases that have captured the headlines in recent months — has shown the admissions system to be something else entirely: exploitable, arbitrary, broken.At the heart of the scandal is a persistent adulation of highly selective universities. “Elite colleges have become a status symbol with the legitimacy of meritocracy attached to them, because getting in sanctifies you as meritorious,” said Jerome Karabel, a sociologist at the University of California, Berkeley, and a historian of college admissions.The case, in which dozens of parents are accused of buying spots at elite universities for their teenagers, comes amid already heightened scrutiny of college admissions.[Learn more about how families who have legally hired college admissions consultants view the ethics of their choices.]Last summer, a trove of secret files in a lawsuit against Harvard was made public, outlining special admissions preferences and back doors for certain applicants.Then the news broke last fall that a Louisiana preparatory school had fabricated stories based on racial stereotypes to get its students into selective colleges.The court papers released this week says that the organizers of the bribery scheme identified and abused weak spots in the admissions process: special accommodations in standardized testing and a system of reserving slots for students favored by athletic coaches. The parents paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to get higher test scores for their children and to have them fraudulently recruited for boutique sports.The charges against the parents, who include Hollywood actresses and powerful executives, have exposed how thin the line is between admissions help that most middle-class families consider not just legitimate but de rigueur, like sending a child to a Kaplan class for SAT help, and outright fraud, like paying a ringer to take the test for the student.[Read the full list of who has been charged here.]In the days since the scandal broke, college consultants and admissions directors have found themselves in an awkward, sometimes defensive position. They have expressed shock at how the system was manipulated, while being acutely aware that they, as part of the system, may bear some responsibility for an admissions process that has spun out of control.“It isn’t exactly broken, it’s breachable,” said Theodore O’Neill, who was dean of admissions at the University of Chicago from 1989 to 2009.Parents accused in the scandal took advantage of extra-time allowances on the ACT or SAT exams, court documents said, and bribed test administrators to allow someone else to take the tests or to correct students’ answers.Cheating on standardized tests has long been seen as an admissions vulnerability. In 2011, prosecutors on Long Island accused students of hiring others to take standardized tests for them. Testing officials have also reported troubles in Asia, where SAT and ACT scores have been delayed and, in some instances, canceled because of allegations of widespread cheating.[Read how the college admissions scandal further fuels debate on the relevance of the SAT and ACT.]The tests, which also routinely face attacks that they heavily favor affluent students who can afford coaching, are becoming optional at a growing number of selective schools.Colleges say they use a “holistic” admissions system — weighing factors like hardships and service to the community — in part to account for the edge given to those who can attend better schools or pay for test coaching.But reports of fraud at the T.M. Landry College Preparatory School in Breaux Bridge, La., in November have shown those measures to be vulnerable, too. A New York Times investigation found that administrators at the school had falsified transcripts, made up student accomplishments and exploited the worst stereotypes of black America to concoct stories that could be fed to selective schools.[Read how students of color responded to accusations that they were admitted solely due to racial preferences.]Some of the revelations this week were reminiscent of the secrets of admission revealed at the trial last October, in which Asian-American students rejected by Harvard accused the university of downgrading their applications based on subjective measures. Documents in the case shed light on, among other things, the little-known Dean’s and Director’s Interest Lists, closely guarded lists of applicants connected to top donors or other people of interest to the university, and the Z List, a back door for students who were borderline academically.In essence, the wealthy parents accused in the federal charging documents took similar ways in. William Singer, the college consultant accused of being at the center of the bribery scheme, even called his services a “side door,” according to court papers. Compared with the more traditional route of, say, endowing a building, which could cost millions, the door Mr. Singer offered cost only hundreds of thousands of dollars, a relative bargain.[Read more about William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business, who’s at the center of the case.]Other documents in the Harvard lawsuit showed the strong advantage that universities give to recruited athletes; at Harvard, their admission rate in recent years was 86 percent.This week, the bribery investigation illustrated how even those preferences can be gamed.Prosecutors said that parents funneled millions of dollars through Mr. Singer, sometimes through a charity front, to coaches, administrators and sports programs so they would designate their children as recruited athletes in boutique sports like water polo and sailing. Often the children had no experience playing on a competitive sports team, and were not expected to play once they got in.[Here are the top college coaches implicated in the admissions scandal.]The scandal has raised questions about whether such athletic preferences are fair — or even necessary.“Ivy League and sports, to me that’s an oxymoron,” said Christopher Hunt, a college admissions consultant.Mr. O’Neill said that while an argument might be made for recruiting preferences in major sports like football, it was harder to justify for less popular programs.“It seems ludicrous that basically upper-middle-class white kids are given advantages because of their capacity to play minor sports that are meaningless to most people,” he said.But other experts said that eliminating those preferences would be counterproductive.“If you’re going to have an athletics program, then you need to recruit athletes,” said E. Gordon Gee, the president of West Virginia University. “If you’re going to have an orchestra, you need to have orchestra players.”The investigation may spur more schools to reconsider other admission preferences, such as those for legacy students, or the children of alumni. Universities say those preferences encourage community and fund-raising, but impassioned criticism has mounted in the wake of the Harvard lawsuit, and recent news about the influence of wealth on college admissions is likely to keep that fire burning.[Read how private college consulting, where full-service packages can go for $1.5 million, is completely legal and largely unregulated.]According to court documents, the admission rate for legacies at Harvard was 33.6 percent. The rate for the Class of 2022 as a whole was under 5 percent.“It’s like going to the movies — you need a ticket,” said Mimi Doe, a founder of Top Tier Admissions, a college counseling service. “Your scores and grades get you in the door. But guess what? Half the seats are roped off with a big red cord.”Mr. Karabel, the sociologist, said that the bribery crisis simply reflected problems in broader society. “I think that as America has become more and more unequal, affluent parents have become desperate to pass on their privileges to their children and avoid downward mobility at all costs,” he said.Fair access to education, the engine of upward mobility, he suggested, is the casualty.Alan Blinder and Marc Tracy contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhen I pick up needle and thread, I join a long line of women who have turned the domestic arts into political expression. By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim is a journalist.Many years ago, inspired by a book on Korean folk art and craft, I began a crude, autodidactic experiment in stitching. I worked without a pattern, using cheap floss, a needle with a too-small eye and a plastic embroidery hoop to sew geometric designs on a few worn-out T-shirts.Thread lends itself almost too easily to metaphor. With each clumsy stitch, I thought of my maternal grandmother, whom I never got a chance to meet. An artwork of hers hangs on my parents’ wall, in Tacoma, Wash. From a distance, the framed image appears to be a painting, but it is in fact hair-fine embroidery. A light-green parrot sits at rest in a magnolia tree, the bird’s curved, red-orange beak contrasting sharply with its layered feathers. The flowers are in full bloom, shaded dark pink to white.Each tiny stitch of plumage and branch is the work of a young woman’s fingers, cramped by the needle’s demands, her bowed head curving her torso into a C. My grandmother created the panel around 1941, when she was a high-school student in Seoul living under Japanese colonial rule. Given the oppressions of that era — she and her classmates were forced to use Japanese names; she walked past soldiers on her way home from school — embroidery must have lent her a quiet, fleeting freedom.My own practice has been intermittent, but last year, in a moment of anger and news overload, I picked up my old hoop and thread. I began to sew objects, words and portraits of loved ones into handkerchiefs and remnants of felt. I embroidered during afternoon work breaks and in the evening, while watching bad TV. I learned how to keep my fabric just taut enough and marveled at the difference a millimeter of thread can make in evoking a nose or the tuning peg of a tiny violin.I began to notice stitchers all around me, and not just because of the knitting mania inspired by the pussy hat. Articles about “how feminist cross stitching became a tool of the resistance” appeared in my feed. There seemed to be more crocheters fiddling with needles on the subway and pillows embroidered with girl-power motifs in storefront displays.The fabric arts tick upward in times such as these, when women feel particularly indignant. In the 1970s, feminist artists such as Margaret Harrison and Judy Chicago sewed polemics onto canvas and tablecloths. To take up the needle is to reclaim our histories of anonymous, poorly paid and unpaid female craft, garment labor and piece work. As Rozsika Parker writes in her 1984 book, “The Subversive Stitch: Embroidery and the Making of the Feminine,” “because of its history and associations embroidery evokes and inculcates femininity in the embroiderer. But it can also lead women to an awareness of the extraordinary constraints of femininity, providing at times a means of negotiating them, and at other times provoking the desire to escape.”There’s an undeniable satisfaction in pulling thread through the last letter-limb of an embroidered expletive or sewing up the image of a raised fist. Consider the even more radical figures common in “story cloths” created by Hmong women. On these ornate panels, subjugation and survival coincide: Soldiers burn down villages, families cross the Mekong River, women cook dinner in a refugee camp.Even when the design at hand has no straightforward message, the act of embroidery can feel transgressive in its silence and domesticity. It is a haven from news whorls and internet noise, a return to a female tradition when our bodies and minds feel so keenly under assault.The history of embroidery affords a glimpse of “the private inner world” of women, as a chronicler of the Korean tradition puts it. Because it has tended to flourish in female and feminine spaces — namely, the home — it is a kind of secret. To embroider is to embellish: to create a fantasia and thus be momentarily free.None of this is to argue for retreat, let alone to the sewing room. Resistance is necessarily public, manifested in rallies and pickets, door-knocking and debate. Yet for all the time I have spent outside in the Trump era, there is a corresponding need for time indoors, where I can be still and let the mind wander. Textile work resembles meditation, though it can also take place in knitting circles and quilting groups, where silence is shared.I recently reread “Embroideries,” by Marjane Satrapi, a graphic memoir about the lives of women in her extended Iranian family. The young Marjane sits with her grandmother at home over tea and listens to the stories told by female relatives and neighbors. The title of the book refers not only to needle and thread but also to the elaboration in “old wives’ tales,” domestic labor, fashion and nose jobs. Feigned virginity becomes “the full embroidery.”I know just a few things about my grandmother. She was a passionate student who, despite the limited opportunities available to Korean women during Japanese rule, became a high-school math teacher. Her husband forced her to quit when they were married, but she applied her intellect and skills to work in the home. I used a photo of my grandmother’s embroidered parrot to guide a recent project: a bust of my mom sewn into a periwinkle handkerchief. The weave of her face isn’t as delicate as in my grandmother’s work. But there is a hint of her, there in the eyes and red-thread smile.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEmily Kathleen Ely and Rubin Jesse Miller were married April 13 at Early Mountain Vineyards in Madison, Va. Stephanie McNerney, a friend of the couple who was sworn in by a judge as a one-time officiant in a nonreligious ceremony in the state of Virginia, officiated.Ms. Ely, 35, is an assistant professor of reading education and a coordinator of high-impact practices, where she develops and oversees initiatives to improve the teaching and learning practices across campus, at Mary Baldwin University in Staunton, Va. She graduated from the University of Miami, from which she also received a master’s degree in reading education. She also received a Ph.D. in curriculum, instruction and special education from the University of Virginia.She is a daughter of Bonnie B. Hunt of Chapel Hill, N.C., and William L. Ely of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. The bride’s father, who is retired, was the owner and president of Sloan & Company, a company in Rochester that distributes plumping equipment, and of Metro Distributors, a company in Jacksonville, Fla., that distributes countertop materials. Her mother works in Chapel Hill as a licensed Realtor for Golden Real Estate and for Howard Hanna Realty in Rochester.Mr. Miller, also 35, works in Santa Monica, Calif., as a regional director for Dimensional Fund Advisors, an investment management company based in Austin, Tex. He graduated from Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio and received an M.B.A. from the University of Southern California.He is a son of Shelley R. Miller and Dr. Marvin E. Miller of Dayton, Ohio. The groom’s mother is in private practice there as a marriage and family therapist. His father is a medical geneticist at Dayton Children’s Hospital there.The couple met while attending the Allen Creek Elementary School in Rochester. Mr. Miller later reconnected with Dr. Ely’s twin sister, Arin Bryan, during business trips to Austin. Arin Bryan, who tried to set up the couple for years, eventually got them together in 2017 for a group camping trip to Moab, Zion and Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah. They started dating a few months later.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIn her wordsThe U.S. women’s soccer team has filed a gender discrimination lawsuit. The players are the latest athletes to demand equal treatment. By Maya SalamYou’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”— Billie Jean King, a tennis legend who led the charge for pay equality in her sportLast week, all 28 players on the U.S. women’s national soccer team — the greatest women’s soccer team in the world — filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the United States Soccer Federation, another move in its long-running battle for equality.The athletes — including the stars Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe and Carli Lloyd — are not just taking issue with their paychecks but also with where they play, how they travel to matches, and the medical treatment and coaching they receive, in what they called “institutionalized gender discrimination,” as my colleague Andy Das reported.“We’ve always, dating back to forever, been a team that stood up for itself and fought hard for what it felt it deserved and tried to leave the game in a better place,” Rapinoe told The New York Times on Friday.The women’s team holds a record three World Cup championships and four Olympic gold medals.[READ MORE: U.S. Women’s Soccer Team Sues U.S. Soccer for Gender Discrimination]The issue of pay inequality in sports is of course not just soccer’s problem. Women across all sports are paid less, and many have fought for equity in salary and in prize money. Here are other cases where pay inequality has been stark, compelling female athletes to speak out.The U.S. Open. After long-fought battles by champions like Billie Jean King, Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, and Venus and Serena Williams, tennis has seen the most progress when it comes to pay equity.  The first real appeal was made in 1970 by King, after a tournament in Italy for which she was paid just $600 for taking the women’s title. The men’s winner was awarded $3,500. King would later make this statement: “Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”In 1973, King threatened to sit out the U.S. Open unless the prize money was made equal. It worked. That year, the men’s and women’s champions were paid equally, and the U.S. Open has paid its winners equally since. Other Grand Slams, though, were slow to follow suit.[READ MORE: Eight Times Women in Sports Fought for Equality]The Australian Open, and other Grand Slams. Prize money for the Australian Open had fluctuated for decades: In 1978, the men’s winner was paid about 585 percent more than the women’s, ESPN reported last year. And in the mid-1980s, the women’s winner was paid slightly more. By the mid-1990s, men were again paid more, prompting officials in the Women's Tennis Association to push hard for equal pay. In 2001, the Australian Open agreed, and winners have been compensated equally since. The French Open came around in 2006, and then Wimbledon in 2007, a change led by Venus Williams. Williams made a failed plea to Wimbledon’s governing body the night before she took the title in 2005. And in 2006, she wrote an op-ed in The Times of London titled “Wimbledon Has Sent Me a Message: I’m Only a Second Class Champion.” In 2007, she was awarded $1.4 million for her victory, the same as the men’s champion, Roger Federer. More recently, Novak Djokovic, currently the No. 1 men’s player in the world, suggested men deserve more money. “The stats are showing that we have much more spectators on the men’s tennis matches,” he said in 2016. “I think that’s one of the reasons why maybe we should get awarded more.”The W.N.B.A. When compared with the N.B.A., athletes in the W.N.B.A. face extreme pay disparities — though, as is often pointed out, the N.B.A. is a multibillion dollar industry, while the W.N.B.A. is not. Nonetheless, in 2018, the W.N.B.A. set an individual salary cap of $117,500, and rookies earned a minimum of about $50,000. The minimum starting salary for N.B.A. players is about $580,000.Last summer, A’ja Wilson, a star rookie who was the No. 1 overall W.N.B.A. draft pick in 2018, commented on LeBron James’s $154 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. “Must be nice. We over here looking for an M but Lord, let me get back in my lane,” she tweeted. Wilson earned about $53,000 that season. The top N.B.A. draft pick last year, Deandre Ayton, is expected to earn $6.8 million in his first year.U.S.A. Hockey. In March 2017, the women’s national hockey team announced that it would boycott the coming world championship if U.S.A. Hockey did not increase the women’s wages. The risk paid off. Within days, the team and U.S.A. Hockey reached a four-year deal that gave the female players a $2,000 training stipend each month from the United States Olympic Committee and larger bonuses for winning medals. “We want to do the fair thing, and the right thing — not just for hockey but for all women,” Meghan Duggan, the team’s captain, said at the time.Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!______Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.“My passion has been taken away.” A midwife who has delivered hundreds of babies for Mennonite women is facing felony charges for practicing without the proper license. The women are speaking publicly in her defense. [Read the story] “Black audiences are what I’ve considered my base, and I will always make movies for that base.” The actress Regina Hall talks about the two Hollywoods, spirituality and success. [Read the story]“Even Google can no longer hide its gender pay gap.” A new federal rule will force big companies to report pay scales according to gender and race. [Read the story]“I didn’t mean to be brave.” When her husband was arrested on child pornography charges, Maddie Corman’s world fell apart. Then she made a play about it. [Read the story]“It will be good not to be a black spot on the map any longer.” Mario Batali exits his restaurants a year after reports that he sexually assaulted and harassed women. [Read the story]______For Women’s History Month, we’re highlighting stories of trailblazing women you may not know, but should. We’ll bring you two women each week in this newsletter; head over to our Instagram for daily posts.In 1995, Alison Hargreaves became the first woman to conquer Mount Everest alone, without bottled oxygen or the help of Sherpas. When she reached the peak, she sent a radio message to her son and daughter: “To Tom and Kate, my dear children, I am on the highest point of the world, and I love you dearly.” Her homeland, Britain, rejoiced. But the excitement did not last long. Three months later, Hargreaves, 33, died descending from the summit of K2 in Pakistan. Read more about Alison Hargreaves here.Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox. Read past articles here. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWith the impetuous decisions that drove Jim Mattis into retirement, President Trump does more to undermine American national security than any foreign adversary.By Susan E. RiceMs. Rice is a former national security adviser and a contributing opinion writer.This country’s national security decision-making process is more broken than at any time since the National Security Act became law in 1947. Nothing illustrates this dangerous dysfunction more starkly than President Trump’s reckless, unilateral decisions to announce the sudden withdrawal of all 2,000 United States troops from Syria and to remove 7,000 from Afghanistan.These decisions went against the advice of the president’s top advisers, blindsided our allies and Congress, and delivered early Christmas presents to our adversaries from Russia and Iran to Hezbollah and the Taliban. The costs of this chaos are enormous, starting with the blunt, unnerving resignation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, one of the last senior administration officials committed to preserving American global leadership and alliances.In a stunning tweet Wednesday, Mr. Trump declared the Islamic State defeated and promised the rapid return of all United States forces from Syria. In fact, the Islamic State is not defeated, though it is greatly weakened. The Pentagon estimates that 2,000 to 2,500 fighters continue to control territory in southeastern Syria, while tens of thousands more remain throughout Syria and Iraq. Although many militants have melted back into the population, they can re-emerge, as we saw after the American withdrawal from Iraq in 2011. Stabilizing the areas liberated from the Islamic State to prevent its revival remains as important as ever.Cutting and running from Syria benefits only militants, Turkey, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Russia and Iran. We are abandoning our Kurdish partners, leaving them vulnerable to Turkey’s offensive, after they did the hard work of undermining the Islamic State. We are walking away from our British and French allies that deployed forces on the battlefield, and from the coalition of over 70 countries we painstakingly built to counter the Islamic State — without even the courtesy of consultation. We are leaving Israel alone to confront Iran and Hezbollah’s hostility, while relinquishing our remaining influence over the future of a fractured Syria.The near simultaneous order to withdraw half of the American troops in Afghanistan shocked our NATO allies, who have served alongside United States forces since Sept. 11, and shook the Afghan government in advance of precarious presidential elections next year. This arbitrary and precipitous withdrawal will strengthen the Taliban and undermine diplomatic efforts to jump-start reconciliation talks, while opening the field to greater Russian and Chinese influence.If our national security decision-making process were even minimally functional, there would have been a carefully devised plan to execute moves, including wrongheaded ones. The plan would have included strategies for mitigating risks to our partners on the battlefield and to friendly governments; advance consultations with allies; briefings of Congress; and a press strategy.Instead, two factors combined to ensure the collapse of the decision-making apparatus.First, it appears that the national security adviser, John Bolton, rarely convenes his cabinet colleagues, known as the principals committee, to review the toughest issues. Instead, key players are cut out, as reportedly the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff was from the final, fateful meeting on Syria. Mr. Bolton has not named a replacement deputy national security adviser, leaving vacant a crucial position whose holder typically coordinates the national security agencies in drafting and carrying out policy.Mr. Bolton has also taken over direct responsibility for managing everything from cyber and terrorist attacks to hurricanes and pandemics — tasks previously assigned to another top-level White House official. Mr. Bolton is also traveling abroad more than most of his predecessors, even as he is playing multiple all-consuming roles. These ill-advised choices alone would cripple national security decision-making.But a second factor — Mr. Trump himself — has dealt the death blow to effective policymaking. The president couldn’t care less about facts, intelligence, military analysis or the national interest. He refuses to take seriously the views of his advisers, announces decisions on impulse and disregards the consequences of his actions. In abandoning the role of a responsible commander in chief, Mr. Trump today does more to undermine American national security than any foreign adversary. Yet no Republican in Congress is willing to do more than bleat or tweet concerns.Against this backdrop, Mr. Mattis’s resignation is even more worrisome. Even though his record was mixed, he provided desperately needed reassurance to our allies, an unabashed if private counterweight to the president’s worse instincts, and experience and stature too great for Mr. Bolton to ignore. His departure will leave the administration all but devoid of wise, principled leadership and the guts to check a president who consistently places politics and self-interest above national security. No one relishes keeping American service members in harm’s way. American troops should not remain indefinitely in Syria or Afghanistan. Our deployment of forces, strategy and objectives should be continuously evaluated, and decisions based on conditions on the ground and our broader interests. That is what the National Security Council decision-making process is supposed to do. When it is discarded, the security of the nation and our allies is the first to suffer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.  @AmbassadorRice AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by19 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Valeriya SafronovaThere’s only one awards show that celebrates not only musicians and actors but also game changers, social celebrities, animal stars and beauty influencers, all on one stage: The E! People’s Choice Awards. Formerly hosted on CBS, this year the awards have a new network and no host. Votes came in across platforms like Snapchat, Instagram and Facebook, and categories have been expanded to include best T.V. show revival and best concert tour.Check back here for looks from the red carpet at the Barker Hanger in Santa Monica.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherCameron Magruder has a T-shirt-intensive job. When he sits down to film his humorous videos about sports fans watching games or tracking free agency chaos on social media, he plays every role himself, with each fan character in the appropriate shirt, be it North Texas or Yale.Can one person really have so many T-shirts? “I have a lot of random T-shirts,” said Magruder, who is known as Scooter. “You’d be surprised.”Magruder, 30, is one of many people making a living creating videos online. But he is one of the few with a depth of knowledge about sports and dedication to wearing the right shirt that have given him a cult following among fans.His videos satirizing the sometimes passionate, sometimes angry, sometimes delusional overreacting fan have many millions of views on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.In a green Brazil soccer shirt: “You know which country has the most World Cups? Cause I do.”In a yellow Los Angeles Lakers jersey: “I’ve been a Lakers fans since before Kobe Bryant. Since Magic Johnson. Was I alive? Don’t worry about that.”In a yellow Kennesaw State shirt after a five-overtime game against Jacksonville State: “I can go to sleep now!”After that Kennesaw State-Jacksonville State game unexpectedly entered the national conversation last month, Magruder remarkably turned up in the shirts of both teams for his weekly college football video. “I had to order them special,” he said.But usually he is ready. “I looked at the cupcake teams on the schedule before the season and bought the T-shirts accordingly,” he said. “I bought Citadel two months in advance.” Sure enough, after Citadel played Alabama last month, and got off to a good start before being blown out, the shirt turned up in Magruder’s video. "We already won the game,” the blue-shirted Citadel fan boasts. “Being tied at halftime is a win for us.”Magruder’s videos show fans of just about every team reacting to sports’ highs and lows. He has a knack for capturing the themes echoing around each fan base, like Central Florida proclaiming itself “defending national champions” and Golden State Warriors fans crowing after signing DeMarcus Cousins in free agency: "We’re playing chess, O.K. The whole league is playing checkers, but we’re out here playing chess.”“I don’t really have to watch all the games. Not really,” Magruder said. “I’ll take notes. I’ll see what the upsets were, the close games. Watch the highlights.” The key is the reaction online: “I’ll read Twitter and Reddit forums to see what highlights won’t give you. Comments will help you, too.”The results are videos with dozens of characters each perfectly expressing the anxieties and egotism of a relatable fan.A Florida graduate and a Dallas Cowboys fan, Magruder pays particular attention to his favored teams, with regular videos of their own. But he makes it clear that the character he plays does not necessarily reflect his feeling about those teams."I’m just a mirror,” he said. “I’m only reflecting how fans feel.”Yes, he sometimes yells about Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott — “A lot of Cowboys fans don’t like Dak” — but his feeling is that Prescott is ill-served by the team’s offensive plan.His set is his living room in Orlando, Fla. It takes about 30 minutes for a friend to film him running through the day’s action. Then he will edit the video himself, taking about eight hours to get the quick cuts and music just right.Magruder was trained as an actor but notes that acting jobs are few in Orlando. So he has carved out his own performing niche.He expects to continue his college football satire beyond the regular season, notably for the bowl games. His nonsports videos include a response to the latest Avengers movie, with plans to do more movie and television reactions. He promises that “Game of Thrones” is coming.Though the fans in Magruder’s videos have their own enthusiasms and pet peeves, there are common themes. More than almost any other outburst, Magruder can often be heard yelling, “These refs are trash.”No matter what T-shirt he is wearing.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLOVE LETTERSThe American poet D. A. Powell shares an ode to the actor’s mischievous character Jack Hock in “Can You Ever Forgive Me?”By D. A. PowellThis Valentine’s Day, T asked five writers to compose a love letter (of sorts) to an actor or fictional character who has been nominated — or, in one case, passed over — this year for the 91st Academy Awards. Here, the poet D. A. Powell, who has most recently published his work in The Nation, Denver Quarterly and Columbia Poetry Review, pens a poem to Richard E. Grant’s performance as Jack Hock in “Can You Ever Forgive Me?,” which garnered Grant a nomination for best supporting actor. For Jack Hock, as Played by Richard E. GrantIf one might make a dessertwith polska kielbasathis might be you: sweetbut meaty, streetand needy, delightfulfrightful, entirely fillingand bad for the figurebut so what. I am a gluttonfor punishment, banishmentravishment and anything hardon the system. The systemis out to get you, make youa ribbon. Take what you likefrom the medicine cabinetof any man who’ll keep youuntil morning. The warninglabels are for kids and granny’snight nurse. But you, youtake the risk because whythe hell not. No one’s gotto know where you liveor how. On air, on hope, onblow, on gin. You arescandalous. And far too thin.Scruples are for other men.Not you. You wouldn’t beJack Hock now, would you then.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnJohn E. Bennett and Jeff Chen issue a warning.By Deb AmlenTUESDAY PUZZLE — To paraphrase a famous film character, “Why did it have to be circled squares slithering their way through my puzzle?”I kid. We’ve seen serpentine circles before, but I don’t recall seeing quite so many of these theme entries in a grid before.Over all, fairly easy, although there were a few speed bumps in the northeast, which slowed me down a bit.15A: You know this, even if you don’t think you know which state is “said to be ‘high in the middle.’” You can guess this one, as long as you understand that there is wordplay afoot. Four letters, it’s an American state and it’s “high” in the middle. If you’re smacking your forehead and saying “Oh!,” you’re on the right track. Add an O on either end, and you’ve got OHIO.21A: TIL that you can have your very own TWIBE on Twitter. I’m on Twitter all the time (come say hi to me at @NYTimesWordplay), and I had no idea this was even a thing. Join or make one of your own today.31A: Wordplay alert! On first read, the clue “Long past time?” sounds as if it were talking about lateness (“It’s long past the time you were supposed to be here!”). The answer is YORE because the clue should really be read as “A time long past.”32A: This is another clue that beginning solvers probably look at and think to themselves, “How am I supposed to know that?” The short answer is that you’re not. No one knows trivia as specific as “Guinness record-holder for the U.S. city with the most consecutive days of sun (768), informally.” But working those crossings will set you free, my friends. They are particularly kind here, and before you know it, you’ll be saying to yourself: “Huh. I didn’t know ST. PETE got that much sun. Perhaps I should plan a vacation there.”41A: Do the names of sports figures trip you up? Try one of our topical articles, “10 Sports Names That Will Help You Become a Better Crossword Solver” under the “Words to Know” tab on Wordplay’s main page. Once you’ve read that, you’ll know that the answer to “Baseball's Matty, Felipe or Moises” is the surname ALOU, which has appeared 239 times in the New York Times Crossword. So it’s worth knowing.33D: Sneaky. You’ll start off thinking about what kind of ORE the constructors are looking for, and you’ll end up realizing that it’s a TYPO. “Ore, for one?” is all dressed up like a straightforward, ORE-finding clue until you get to that question mark. Slow down and think. It’s obviously wordplay because of that question mark, so read the clue this way: “What is ORE, to ONE?” Well, there’s only one letter’s difference, so it has to be a TYPO. I would have liked this one even more if the R and the N were closer together on the keyboard, because that’s a tough TYPO to make. Still, it’s a very clever clue.53A/42D: This is the last square I filled in, because my sports wheelhouse is very small. I wanted an L for League in the AFC/UFC crossing, and put in random letters (L for League? A for Association?) until I gave up and finally revealed that square. That’s very rare for me, and maybe the clues could have given more of a boost to those of us who are sports-challenged.Check this out, because it’s particularly elegant: There are four venomous snakes slithering their way through John E. Bennett and Jeff Chen’s grid, and as you solve, you will discover them in the circled squares when they’re read top to bottom (there is no backward reading today). One touch that I really liked was that each snake touches the central revealer, “WATCH YOUR STEP!” That felt like it gave an extra bit of cohesiveness to the grid.John E. Bennett: I tend to like crossword puzzles that use the diagonals in the grid as part of the theme and solving process. This puzzle is no exception. Snakes have always been fascinating to me, but I must admit to being maybe a little overly cautious when hiking in venomous snake country!This puzzle seemed as if it would be relatively easy to construct, since the snake shapes could be arranged easily in many different configurations. I put the constraint of total symmetry into the initial mix, which made for a lot of time-consuming frustration. I was finally able to get four venomous snakes, of reasonable length, to work out in the grid in a totally symmetrical fashion using SIDEWINDER, COPPERHEAD, BUSHMASTER, and FER-DE-LANCE, along with the central revealer, “WATCH YOUR STEP!”Although my first submission to Will received positive attention for overall theme and design configuration, it was turned down because the supporting fill was too weak and the “bushmaster” and “fer-de-lance” entries were not well enough known to solvers. I eventually got another version to work, replacing those two snakes with KING COBRA and PUFF ADDER. I was pretty much down to the end of venomous snake possibilities without having the word “snake” appear in the theme. When this version was rejected, also because of relatively poor supporting fill quality, I knew I was going to need help. That’s when I contacted my crosstown puzzle guru, Jeff Chen.Jeff accepted the challenge right away and was instrumental in getting this puzzle accepted. His adjustments to the grid made a huge difference in opening up possibilities for improved fill. Jeff also strategically asked Will whether having the snake shapes be totally symmetrical in the grid was necessary, and Will said no. In fact, he and Joel hadn’t really noticed that they were totally symmetrical! This got me off on a totally different course, which ultimately allowed the puzzle to be configured with all snakes either beginning or ending in the “WATCH YOUR STEP!” reveal. It also made the snakes look more “snakey” in their asymmetry, and less like a design pattern. Jeff’s input and collaboration helped bail me out once again.Jeff Chen: IT HAD TO BE SNAKES is exactly 15 letters! It had to be an incorrect quote, though. Bah!Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — A blizzard of bets from college basketball fans in March helped New Jersey to its second-highest monthly sports betting total, as March Madness translated into March Gladness for sports books.More than $372 million in sports bets were made in the state last month. That brings New Jersey's total since sports betting began last June to over $2.3 billion.After paying off winning bets and accounting for expenses, New Jersey's sports books have made over $63 million from sports betting and paid $7.7 million in state taxes in the first three months of this year. New Jersey and Delaware are the only states with newly legalized sports betting to meet their tax revenue projections from the betting.Several sports books said the number of bets on the college basketball tournament and their dollar amounts exceeded those from the NFL's Super Bowl."In this year's first ever March Madness with legalized betting available, U.S. bettors further proved to be fervent college basketball fans, and submitted more bets on DraftKings Sportsbook for the opening weekend of the NCAA Tournament alone than the Super Bowl," said Jamie Shea, the company's head of digital sportsbook operations. "While March had certainly been marked on our calendars before, this past tournament gave us a glimpse into the staggering business potential of college basketball in an expanded regulated betting market."FanDuel, whose sportsbook at the Meadowlands Racetrack in East Rutherford, near New York City, continues to lead the state in sports betting revenue at more than $32 million this year, said it had the best month any New Jersey operator has had since sports betting began in the state, earning $17.6 million. Monmouth Park Racetrack in Oceanport has made $5.4 million from sports bets so far this year.PlaySugarhouse saw its active users increase by 40% during the first week of the college basketball tournament compared to the week before, and its March revenue was up 23% compared to February.Of the nearly $1.1 billion in bets taken by New Jersey sportsbooks so far this year, more than $862,000 were made online. Several other states are struggling with whether to allow online sports betting as part of bills they are considering.Atlantic City's nine casinos and the two New Jersey racetracks that offer sports betting saw $294 million in casino gambling and sports betting revenue in March, up more than 34% from a year earlier. Only three casinos reported a revenue decline that month, with six showing an increase. Part of the increased total revenue is due to the fact that last March there were only seven casinos operating in Atlantic City, compared with nine now.The Borgata, as usual, led the pack with $65.7 million in March, up 1.3% from a year ago. The casino had its best March ever in terms of gross slot win ($41.7 million) and net slot win ($35 million), which excludes promotional credits given to gamblers.The Golden Nugget inched back into the No. 2 spot at $32 million, up 14% from a year ago. Tropicana was next at $31.3 million, down 4.2%, followed by Harrah's at $26.5 million, down 16.1%, and Caesars at $22.8 million, up 4.3%. Bally's took in $15.3 million, down 2.6%, and Resorts took in $15 million, up 1.2%.Among the two new casinos that opened last June, Hard Rock took in $26.3 million, and the Ocean Casino Resort took in $17.6 million.The casinos also were aided by more than $39 million in internet winnings, an increase of 53% compared to March 2018. Among internet-only entities, Resorts Digital more than tripled its revenue from a year ago to $15.7 million, and Caesars Interactive-NJ was up 16.4% to $5.1 million.______This story has been corrected to show that the $294 million in revenue was won by the nine casinos and the two horse tracks that offer sports betting, not just the casinos.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Billionaire Mike Ashley's Sports Direct said it did not intend to make an offer to buy Debenhams after lenders took control of the ailing retailer on Tuesday.Sports Direct had until April 22 to make a firm offer for the retailer or walk away under British takeover rules.Debenhams was locked in a long-running battle for control with its largest shareholder, Ashley's Sports Direct. (Reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain in Bengaluru; Editing by Shailesh Kuber)AdvertisementGlobal SportsIt was a year of undeniable progress for women in sports, despite the revelations at the Larry Nassar trial.Sandi Morris, an American pole-vaulter, competing in Switzerland in August.CreditCreditArnd Wiegmann/ReutersSupported byBy Christopher ClareyIt was a year of fitful but undeniable progress for women in sports as they ascended to places in the executive suite, in the commentary booth and on the awards podium they had never reached before.There was a decision to award equal prize money in professional surfing and moves to give equal pay to women’s and men’s national soccer teams in Norway and New Zealand, which will likely lead to others’ following suit. Women from South Korea and North Korea joined forces to compete in hockey at the Winter Olympics and in other sports at the Asian Games.Serena Williams came back from pregnancy to reach two Grand Slam finals at age 36 and pushed hard for tennis to make more allowances for working mothers.Many of the breakthroughs in 2018, as is so often the case, were overdue. None were more emotionally wrenching than the scene in a Michigan courtroom in January as more than 150 sexual-assault victims confronted their abuser, Lawrence G. Nassar, the former team doctor for U.S.A. Gymnastics and an employee of Michigan State University. He had been committing his crimes for more than 20 years.One by one over several days at Nassar’s sentencing hearing, the women rose and delivered their victim impact statements. Some were prominent athletes. Some were not, but all shared a common cause, emboldened in part by the #MeToo movement.“Imagine feeling like you have no power and no voice,” Aly Raisman, an Olympic gold medalist in gymnastics from the United States, said in court. “Well, you know what, Larry? I have both power and voice, and I am only beginning to just use them. All these brave women have power, and we will use our voices to make sure you get what you deserve: a life of suffering spent replaying the words delivered by this powerful army of survivors.”After all the goals and the touchdowns in 2018, that moment in Michigan far removed from any playing field is the memory that lingers: a searing reminder of all that can go horribly wrong as athletes, parents and administrators chase sporting excellence.“How can this continue to go on for as long as it did, and why did so many adults enable it?” said Julie Foudy, former captain of the United States women’s soccer team.“At all levels, at U.S.A. Gymnastics, Michigan State, the U.S.O.C., there was an adult in the room who could have stopped it and they never did, and that’s something that’s hard to wrap your brain around.”The fallout has been significant with the resignation of Lou Anna K. Simon, the Michigan State president, and the move by the United States Olympic Committee to initiate decertification of U.S.A. Gymnastics and build a new federation.Far from the United States, the Afghan government is investigating allegations, reported by The Guardian, that players on Afghanistan’s women’s soccer team were abused sexually and physically by male coaches and officials.The challenge now is to create long-term safeguards.“I would love to believe there will never be a bad guy, but there are going to be bad guys and bad girls,” said Sarah Hirshland, the new chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee. “And we have to make sure that when there are, we very quickly have systems in place to find them, weed them out and get rid of them.”Hirshland, appointed in July, is a symbol of systemic change as the first noninterim female chief executive at the committee. A former golf executive who has yet to attend an Olympic Games, her appointment was linked to the Nassar fallout, reflecting the need to bring in a leader from outside the Olympic world to scrutinize and reform the culture (and the organization’s image).She was not alone in that regard.The Dallas Mavericks of the N.B.A. brought in Cynthia Marshall as chief executive after a Sports Illustrated article revealed sexual harassment and misconduct in the team’s front office. Until Marshall’s arrival, the Mavericks had no women in executive positions, but Marshall has subsequently hired and promoted several, bringing the gender balance close to 50 percent.Reaching that figure remains more goal than reality for many sports organizations. But the number of high-profile female leaders in sports is creeping upward, and none is more prominent than Susanna Dinnage, who last month was named to replace Richard Scudamore as chief executive of the Premier League, the leading men’s domestic soccer league and one of the world’s top sports properties.“I think it’s absolutely a great sign, but again it’s slow in coming,” Foudy said. “As we’ve seen in companies and studies, when you have a diversity of thought around the table, the company performs better. They think differently. They are more progressive. They think openly, and you’re not seeing that on all levels.”There were also less-formal signs of a shift in thinking about women in sports.The practice of using models, known as grid girls, at Formula One ceremonies was ended by the sport’s owners, though some race organizers did not comply with the ban.And Sandi Morris, one of the world’s best pole-vaulters, was at home in Fayetteville, Ark., last month when she received a message from her agent in Europe that she had gone viral in Germany.It turned out that a billboard being used to promote a coming indoor meet in Düsseldorf had drawn concerns about sexism because it showed her from the rear in her tight two-piece competition uniform, pole in hand.Morris had approved the image’s use in part because the promoters had told her they wanted to show her bib number with her name on it: female pole-vaulters wear their bibs on their backs. The promoters, under pressure, eventually chose to stop using the image and to continue promoting the February meet with a picture of Tomas Stanek, a German shot-putter, facing forward with his arms outstretched.“I can understand why people who are not familiar with athletics would see that billboard and immediately think, ‘Oh my gosh, why are you showing that woman from this angle?’” Morris said. “But to me, it was just a picture of me standing there getting ready to compete in a uniform I chose.”But even if Morris says she does not believe there was overt sexism in this case, she recognizes that the debate is important and a sign of change: a growing resistance to objectifying female athletes in a microcosm where it remains widespread.“I’m not naïve to the fact that sexism is everywhere in sport,” she said. “If you just get on YouTube and type in women’s pole vault, the first thing you will probably see is one of our butts flying over the bar in an up-close image.“It’s really hard, honestly. I’m from a conservative family, and so when I think about my parents wanting to find video of me, I just dread it. I’m like, ‘Oh my gosh, Mom. Just don’t go on YouTube, O.K.? I will send you the link to whatever you want to see.’”Morris said it was disappointing to think that her appearance was more interesting to the public than the vaulting ability she had spent her life perfecting.“Even though this meet had, I know, good intentions, I think that it will be a good lesson for anyone really who’s in marketing when they go to image choice,” she said. “Imagine that the person in the photo is a male. Would you still use this picture?”There were also calls for an end to double standards this month when Ada Hegerberg was announced as the winner of the inaugural women’s Ballon d’Or award in Paris. In the midst of this breakthrough moment for women’s sports, she was asked by the French D.J. Martin Solveig if she knew how to twerk.Hegerberg curtly said no and looked taken aback. But she later said that she did not perceive the comment as sexist, was not upset and that Solveig had apologized for what he termed “a joke, probably a bad one.”“It’s not so much the dance that shocked me,” said Roxana Maracineanu, an Olympic medalist in swimming who is France’s new minister for youth and sport. “It was more remarks I heard in the crowd, like ‘On top of that, she’s pretty.’”In Maracineanu’s view, work remains to be done in changing attitudes toward women’s sports: in improving the tone and volume of coverage, and in increasing the number of female coaches and officials as well as athletes. She will get a chance when the Women’s World Cup of soccer is played in France next year.FIFA, the sport’s global governing body, has vowed to make the 2019 edition the biggest and best ever. But at the same time it has allowed the finals of two major men’s competitions — the Copa América and the Concacaf Gold Cup — to be played on July 7, the same day as the women’s final.“FIFA talks a good game of, ‘Oh, we’re going to optimize and commercialize and build the market,’ and then they come out two weeks later with this,” Foudy said.The struggle for equality, and occasional priority, continues, but there is no doubt that women’s voices could be heard above the sporting din in 2018.Nowhere more powerfully than in Michigan.“Leave your pain here,” Rosemarie Aquilina, the judge in the Nassar case, said to one of the victims as she opened the courtroom to those who wished to speak. “And go out and do your magnificent things.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaABU DHABI — Qatar forward Almoez Ali joined a small group of record-makers at the Asian Cup last week, becoming only the fourth player in the tournament’s history to score four goals in a single game. His exploits in his country’s 6-0 thrashing of North Korea were cheered by just one fan sporting the Gulf country’s colors.That was one more than team officials expected.That is because the Asian Cup is being played this month in the United Arab Emirates, one of the main players in the punishing Saudi Arabia-led blockade of Qatar that began in 2017 and already has led to inconveniences for visiting Qatari officials, visiting Qatari journalists and, clearly, given their tiny number, visiting Qatari fans. The looming specter of the political dispute has produced a surreal air around Qatar’s matches, one that is expected to be repeated at its showdown against Saudi Arabia on Thursday at Zayed City Sports Stadium.Because of the geopolitical implications, that match could be one of the most-watched games of the tournament, though it will most likely not include many, if any, Qataris in the stands. The official attendance figure for the Qatar-North Korea game on Sunday in Al Ain was announced as 452, though several people who attended said the actual number most likely was closer to 100. Similarly low attendance figures have been a feature of the tournament, Asia’s most important soccer championship, in its first two weeks.The one flag-waving fan in Qatar’s maroon colors Sunday was a South Korean woman who had traveled from her homeland to root for Qatar, according to Qatari officials. Two other unidentified men sat nearby behind a Qatari flag, a rare spot of color in a sea of white seats. The sparse crowd only avoided setting another tournament record, for the lowest attendance, because of two groups of fans bused in by North Korea’s delegation.The soporific atmosphere most likely will give way to something far different and far more political when Qatar and Saudi Arabia meet to decide the winner of Group E. The countries have not met on the soccer field since diplomatic ties between the countries were severed 18 months ago, but the game’s location in this Emirate capital adds another layer of tension.“That’s almost more difficult to imagine than the U.S. national soccer team playing Iran in Tehran,” said Neil Quilliam, a senior research fellow with the Middle East and North Africa program at London’s Chatham House, a British foreign-affairs think tank. “There will be some jittery people in Qatar hoping their players make it home.”Political intrigue large and small is nothing new at the Asian Cup. On Tuesday, Palestine played Jordan, which has been home to Palestinian refugees for over half a century. A day later, Iran faced Iraq. Yemen, which is on the brink of famine amid a prolonged Saudi-led assault on Houthi rebels, is among the first-time participants in the event.This year’s tournament also has been accompanied by significant issues in the soccer world. The A.F.C.’s president, Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, a member of the Bahraini royal family, has been assailed over his silence about the fate of Hakeem al-Araibi, a refugee soccer player of Bahraini descent who was detained in Thailand on the orders of Bahrain’s government. And the event is the latest staging point for discussions related to FIFA President Gianni Infantino’s desire to expand the 2022 Qatar World Cup to 48 teams, a move that almost certainly would require Qatar to share games with countries currently leading the blockade, as well as a simmering battle for the leadership of the A.F.C. Sheikh Salman faces two challengers: one from Qatar, and another from the U.A.E.But the main crisis at this year’s Asian Cup remains the ongoing blockade of Qatar. The U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia have been in lock step in their opposition to Qatar, which they have accused of financing terrorism, interfering in their domestic affairs and growing too close to Iran. The countries were especially incensed by Qatar’s support for a range of activists across the Arab world, including the political Islamists that other Gulf monarchs consider a threat to their rule.Qatar’s leaders have denied the accusations of interference and of financing terrorism, arguing that it is their country’s independence that has most angered their neighbors. But the blockade’s effects on the tournament is not difficult to spot.Saoud al-Mohannadi, a Qatari and the Asian Football Confederation’s senior official responsible for the tournament, was initially barred from traveling to the U.A.E. on the eve of the competition. Initially prevented from boarding a flight from Oman, he was allowed through a day later. Five journalists cleared to cover the event by the A.F.C. weren’t so lucky; they were turned back upon arrival, though one photographer was allowed in. (Saudi Arabia has 47 print reporters accredited for the tournament.)Local organizers and the Abu Dhabi Sports Council were not made available for interviews. Neither group responded to emailed questions related to the tournament.Complicating matters further is the tournament’s television agreement. Qatar’s beIN Sports holds the broadcast rights for the event, but several top hotels, including the guest rooms of the Fairmont, where A.F.C.’s official delegation is based, and the hotels adjacent to the stadiums refuse to air beIN’s lineup of channels.Since the start of the crisis, beIN’s broadcasts — matches for which it has paid hundreds of millions of dollars for the exclusive rights — have been pirated by entity known as beoutQ, which Qatar contends is based in Saudi Arabia. As it did during last summer’s World Cup, beoutQ is broadcasting the Asian Cup in its entirety, overlaying beIN’s logo with its own.Asian Cup organizers have issued statements of frustration and threats of legal action, with little effect. In Bahrain, Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al-Khalifa, a son of the country’s ruler, posted a video on Instagram this week of his reaction to his country’s last-minute triumph against India on Monday. His chosen broadcaster, made clear by the logo on the screen, was beoutQ. (The A.F.C’s president is a member of Bahrain’s royal family.)On the eve of the game, beIN launched a website that outlined evidence against the channel, which it describes as a Saudi-supported operation.The broader dispute has been visible inside stadiums, too; at several, the partnership between the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia in opposition to Qatar is on display in banners that display both countries’ flags and a set of shaking hands.What will happen on the field Thursday at the Zayed Sports City Stadium remains anyone’s guess. At an under-19 game between the U.A.E. and Qatar in October, the Emirati captain refused to shake hands with his Qatari counterpart at the pregame coin toss.Qatari officials and players have tried to play down the political cloud hanging over their presence. They say they are focused on improving ahead of the next men’s World Cup, which Qatar will host in 2022.On Tuesday, Qatar’s players appeared to be in good humor as they ran out to practice around sunset at a local field in Abu Dhabi, joking and teasing one another as a group of Spanish coaches put them through their paces. Apart from having no fans present at its games, the team has not faced any issues with the A.F.C. and local tournament organizers, according to a spokesman for the Qatari soccer federation, Ali al-Salat. But the players were briefed to avoid discussing politics ahead of the Saudi Arabia match.“You might look at it as special, but in our case it’s not that special,” midfielder Salem al Hajri said in a short interview as he prepared to join Tuesday’s training session.Asked about the political implications of the game, Saudi Arabia’s captain and its coach both demurred, saying those thoughts were for others.“We are thinking exclusively on the sports part of the game tomorrow,” said Juan Antônio Pizzi, Saudi Arabia’s Argentine coach. “Whatever the surrounding issues, we are not entitled to talk about things off the field.”Al Hajri and his Qatar teammates are guaranteed at least one supporter. The South Korean woman at the team’s first two matches, Mary Lee, confirmed that she would attend. Her relationship with the team is a curious one; al-Salat said she has links to the Qatar embassy in South Korea.“We appreciate the support because she’s the only fan who holds the Qatari flag in the U.A.E.,” al-Salat said. In normal times, she would be joined by at least 2,000 Qatari fans, he said, but the regular flights between Qatar’s capital, Doha, and Abu Dhabi have also been shut down by the blockade.Qataris now need special clearance and two layers of vetting to travel into the Emirates, where many have family members. But without direct flights between the countries, fans interesting in traveling to the Asian Cup would be required to fly through another country — typically Oman or Kuwait — as the national team was required to do on its way here. (Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa bin Ahmed al-Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family who leads the soccer federation, has based himself in Oman and flies in for his team’s games.)Saudi’s soccer federation, meanwhile, has secured thousands of tickets for its games, but their fans’ presence has had little effect at a tournament notable for its paltry attendance figures. The lack of fans has created a strange atmosphere inside the stadiums, with loud music echoing around largely empty arenas and M.C.s who exhort those present to “make some noise.”Despite tickets priced as low as about $7, even neutral fans are staying away. Several migrant workers, a group that heavily outnumbers U.A.E. nationals in Abu Dhabi, said their biggest obstacle was not ticket prices or geopolitical intrigue but something far more basic: As one Nigerian taxi driver said, he was just too busy.“I’m always at work,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNATIONALAn article on Sunday about scrutiny that the website Buzzfeed is facing over an investigative article about President Trump and Michael Cohen misstated the month that Mark Schoofs, BuzzFeed’s longtime investigative editor, left the organization. It was October, not August.NEW YORK An article on Saturday about the handling of a sexual assault accusation against a top official in the administration of Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey misidentified the lawmaker who asked a question of Mr. Murphy’s chief counsel during a hearing. It was Assemblywoman BettyLou DeCroce, not Assemblywoman Holly T. Schepisi.METROPOLITANAn article on Sunday about a plan to protect the Lower East Side from flooding misspelled the given name of a member of Community Board 3. She is Vaylateena Jones, not Vaylateeba.SPORTSAn article on Monday about the tennis player Frances Tiafoe misstated the given name of the Italian player beaten by Tiafoe. He is Andreas Seppi, not Andrea.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Saturday about John E. Merow, a former chairman of the Wall Street law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, misstated the date of his birth. It was Dec. 20, 1929 — not 1919. (As the obituary correctly noted, he was 89.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tariq PanjaOrganizers of a high-profile summer tournament for world soccer’s biggest club teams have decided to keep Juventus and its star Cristiano Ronaldo away from the United States this year, eliminating the risk of the Portuguese star’s being detained by the authorities as part of a rape investigation in Las Vegas.While the bulk of the games in the tournament, the International Champions Cup, will take place in the United States as usual, Juventus’s games will be a part of the Asian version of the annual event. Juventus will be joined there — most likely in China and Singapore — by the Premier League teams Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United.Ronaldo, a five-time world player of the year, is in his first season in Italy’s top league after Juventus paid more than $114 million to acquire him from Real Madrid last July. Only months after his transfer, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened an investigation into accusations by an American woman, Kathryn Mayorga, who said Ronaldo raped her in a Las Vegas hotel room in 2009 and later paid her $375,000 for her silence.Ronaldo and his lawyers repeatedly denied the rape accusation when it emerged in September; Ronaldo labeled it “fake news” in a video posted on one of his social media accounts, and at one point his lawyers threatened to sue the German newsmagazine that was the first to publish Mayorga’s accusations. Juventus stood behind its star, too, expressing appreciation for his “great professionalism and dedication” and saying Mayorga’s accusations “do not change this opinion.”Juventus has a multiyear agreement to play in the International Champions Cup, which is organized by New York-based Relevent Sports. Ronaldo’s legal troubles played a role in shaping plans for Juventus’s participation, according to people familiar with this summer’s schedule, which will be released next week.A spokesman for Juventus, which is on course to win an eighth straight Italian league championship, said “going east” to Asia was normal after spending recent preseasons in the United States.While preseason tours are not seen as serious competition, they are vital for teams’ preparations ahead of the new season, and Juventus would have drawn unwanted scrutiny had it traveled to America without Ronaldo, its star attraction.The case against Ronaldo resurfaced after the German magazine Der Spiegel said it had obtained confidential documents related to the case, and the purported payment by Ronaldo to settle it, from the whistle-blower platform Football Leaks. Around the same time, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said it had reopened its investigation into the rape accusation, following up on information it said had been provided by the victim.Ronaldo, now 33, was a star at England’s Manchester United when he met Mayorga, now 35, at a Las Vegas nightclub in 2009, just before his record-breaking transfer to Real Madrid. He invited her and others to his suite in the early hours of June 13, 2009, she said, where she says he sexually assaulted her.A number of the documents Mayorga’s lawyers say support her claim were published by Der Spiegel, which also published a lengthy interview with Mayorga. Ronaldo’s lawyers have questioned the authenticity of some of the documents published by Der Spiegel, but have not denied that Ronaldo and Mayorga had a sexual encounter, which they contend was consensual.According to her lawsuit, Mayorga reported an assault to the police later that day and underwent a medical examination, during which evidence was collected in what is sometimes known as a rape kit. The Las Vegas police have acknowledged that Mayorga filed a report and was examined, but the police said she did not name her attacker at the time. The case was reopened at Mayorga’s request in September.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLoose EndsYou’ll never have to ask “What’s the Super Bowl?” again.By Sarah HuttoMs. Hutto is a comedian who writes for Reductress, McSweeney's and The New Yorker. She's been making daisy chains in the outfield since the late ‘70s.Roller derby is for when you want to get hurt while wearing fishnets, but also go in circles.Horseback riding is for if you never got over getting too big to ride your dog without hurting its back.Football is moshing in shiny pants without music while wearing helmets.Skydiving is for people who sort of want to stay alive, but also sort of don’t.Softball is that thing when you sit in a field, talking to a leaf, before a ball eventually rolls by you and then everyone is yelling for some reason.Baseball was invented by people from Boston who needed something to hit their bats with when they weren’t vandalizing cars.Karate is where you put hyper kids when you’re not ready to put them on medication.CrossFit is what you talk about when your pyramid scheme fails.Archery is for when you like to shoot at stuff, but also can walk up a flight of stairs without getting winded.Hunting is for when you kill your own food, except that most of your food is Cheetos.Golf is that thing when you already died a long time ago, but still want to walk around in the grass insulting your friends.Jogging is how you tell people in cars that you’re better than them, but secretly hate yourself.Bicycling is how you get to work if you’re a 14-year-old cashier, or 40 and had a bad divorce lawyer.Hiking is for when you want to be closer to nature, but also have a TV movie made about you because you died in it.Skiing is like if you only want one bumper sticker on your SUV that you don’t know how to park, but you don’t want to be political, so it just says “Sugarbush.”Hockey is what you take up when you can’t afford anesthesia for a filling.Racecar driving is that thing of drinking water out of a hat during a police chase in a funnel.Snorkeling is for people who like to upset fish, but not kill them.Fishing is for people who like to upset fish, and immediately kill them.Tennis is for couples to take up briefly before finally just going to marriage counseling.Yoga is for telling strangers that you can do missionary position, and also, like, eight of the other ones. (Ten if you have that squishy wedge thingie.)Boating gives you a place to live when you get kicked out of the house for your drinking.Skateboarding is for when you like to scare pedestrians, but also get hit by a car eventually.Surfing is actually pretty kick-ass.Sarah Hutto (@huttopian) is a comedian who writes for Reductress, McSweeney's and The New Yorker.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Nick CorasanitiEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — At first, the sports book in northern New Jersey appeared to have everything ready when sports betting became legal in the state: 52 high-definition TVs, a fully stocked bar, a revamped menu, a plush V.I.P. section and 20 tellers spread out in a cavernous room.It turned out there was one thing the facility at the Meadowlands Racetrack operated by FanDuel had not fully accounted for — the sheer volume of people eager to gamble.On several Saturdays in September, there were hourslong lines outside the sports book. Some people could not even place bets before game time. So the sports book expanded, moving upstairs and taking up the second floor.It turns out that New Jersey really enjoys sports betting.“This is definitely the most incredible thing that’s ever happened, anywhere, for anything,” said Mark Taran, 30, who drove to the FanDuel Sportsbook from his home on Staten Island on a recent weeknight for the opening night of the National Basketball Association season.[Can sports betting do for Atlantic City’s casinos what Donald J. Trump could not?]Since the state started allowing sports betting in June, with Gov. Philip D. Murphy, a Democrat, placing the ceremonial first bet on Germany to win the World Cup (he lost $20), the sports betting industry in the state has enjoyed remarkable growth. New Jersey bettors wagered $184 million on sports in September, nearly double the $96 million bet in August. So far, $336.6 million has been wagered on sports, according to the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement.“This was always going to be a gold mine for New Jersey,” said Raymond Lesniak, a former Democratic state legislator who led a campaign against a national ban on sports wagering that was ultimately set aside by the Supreme Court. “I knew this from the start. The northeast and New Jersey are a hotbed for sports.”New Jersey’s rapid embrace of sports wagering has surprised some industry experts who are recalibrating how quickly the state could become a national leader — and even challenge Nevada, where such gambling has long been permitted.“New Jersey will eclipse Vegas,” said Chris Grove, the managing director of Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, a sports wagering research firm. “It’s a matter of when, not if.”That rather bullish outlook for New Jersey may not be universally shared. Nevada has not released its sports wagering tally for September, but during the previous three years its average for September, $460 million, has been much higher than New Jersey’s. And sports betting in New Jersey still generates far less revenue than Atlantic City’s nine casinos.Still, sports wagering is quickly on its way to outpace the state’s far more established, though ailing, horse racing industry. In 2017, the racing industry took in about $570 million in bets, according to the Division of Gaming. Sports betting is already at almost 60 percent of that total in less than four months.Much of the recent growth can be attributed to two factors: the introduction of mobile and online sports betting apps by major companies in the industry, like FanDuel and DraftKings, and the start of the college and professional football seasons.Football accounted for nearly $90 million of the sports wagers in September in New Jersey, according to the gaming division.“Personally, when I saw the number, yeah, I was very surprised,” said David Rebeck, the director of the gaming division, referring to the September figures. He also said he was impressed by the growth of both mobile and in-person betting.Despite its booming popularity, mobile betting in New Jersey is still in its infancy. The first app, by DraftKings, was introduced in early August. FanDuel, which has the second-largest share of mobile betting, started in early September, just in time for the football season. Other companies, like SugarHouse, began theirs in the fall.Mr. Rebeck said he expects the sports betting totals on apps to continue to grow as more companies continue to go that direction, and existing ones expand their advertising. As for brick-and-mortar operations, six of Atlantic City’s casinos have sports books, bringing the number of sports books in the state to eight.To ensure that online gambling revenues flow back to New Jersey, state regulations require mobile operators to enter into deals with a state-based sports book.“New Jersey’s regulated sports betting is a plane that’s being assembled in mid-flight,” said Mr. Grove, alluding to how quickly the state set in place its sports betting regulations even as casinos, racetracks and other operators were still getting their sports betting operations going. “In September, they had a lot more pieces of the plane.”New Jersey also benefits from sitting between two of the largest media markets in the country, New York City and Philadelphia — and sports betting is not legal in either New York State or Pennsylvania.“I’ve got like 12 million people that live within 20 miles of the place,” said Jeff Gural, who operates the Meadowlands Racetrack and notes that his venue is a relatively short drive or train ride from Manhattan. “I don’t even need that many of them to come.”He anticipated significant increases in sports gamblers during major events, like the Super Bowl in February and the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament in March, and had made plans for the sports book to expand. But the unexpected burst of popularity on Saturdays forced him to accelerate his plans.“When we saw how busy we were, we went to the gaming commission” and sought permission to expand, Mr. Gural said.How long the Meadowlands can retain its geographic advantage is unclear since officials in New York, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, have expressed support for legalizing sports gambling in the state.“After the midterm elections in November, I think we’re going to see a substantial number of states aggressively start looking at whether they want sports wagering in their states,” Mr. Rebeck said, adding that he has been contacted by officials elsewhere. “There’s at least half a dozen states that have an interest, and want to know how we do it.”The rosy numbers generated by sports betting is one piece of what has been positive news for New Jersey’s gaming industry. Revenue at Atlantic City casinos — an industry on life support a few years ago, with five casinos closing their doors — is on pace to be higher this year than last year.On a recent weeknight at the Meadowlands, the sports book was humming with bettors trying to figure out how much they were willing to part with and what winnings well-placed bets might reap.Last Sunday at the FanDuel Sportsbook, one bettor turned a $1,000 long-shot bet on four pro football teams into $13,771.90 in winnings.Mr. Taran was chasing a similar haul. Though he invested far less upfront — $40 — if all his bets across multiple sports hit, it would pay out $22,000.“I could buy a car if I win this thing,” he said. “It’s unbelievable.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressINDIANAPOLIS — NBC Sports will use retired NASCAR star Dale Earnhardt Jr. in its inaugural broadcast of the Indianapolis 500 next month.The second-year analyst will be part of a team that features 14 commentators and host Mike Tirico and analyst Danica Patrick.Earnhardt will be a roving reporter for his first Indianapolis 500 on May 26, contributing to pre-race, in-race and post-race coverage alongside Rutledge Wood. Earnhardt Jr., who will also be featured from Indianapolis Motor Speedway during race week, was used extensively by the network in his first year after retirement with reporting trips to last year's Winter Olympics in South Korea and the Super Bowl.NBC Sports motorsports host Krista Voda will also join Earnhardt at Indianapolis.The broadcast booth will be NBC Sports' full-time IndyCar crew of play-by-play announcer Leigh Diffey and analysts Paul Tracy and Townsend Bell. The 14 total commentators will be the most ever for NBC Sports' coverage of IndyCar as the network plans to treat the Indy 500 as one of its showcase events. ABC had broadcast the "Greatest Spectacle in Racing" exclusively since 1965 in the second-longest-running partnership of its kind until NBC purchased the rights to air the entire 2019 IndyCar schedule.Marty Snider, Kelli Stavast, Kevin Lee and Jon Beekhuis will be the pit reporters for the Indy 500, along with reporters Robin Miller and Dillon Welch.___More AP IndyCar coverage: https://apnews.com/IndyCarAdvertisementWhen Robert Kraft finishes dealing with solicitation charges in Florida, his soccer team could use some help.CreditCreditAdam Glanzman for The New York TimesSupported byBy Kevin DraperFOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Robert K. Kraft’s New England Patriots are a very good football team, having won six Super Bowl championships the past 19 years. They are 33-5 against the A.F.C. East division rival Buffalo Bills during that span.In a cruel twist of fate, Robert Kraft’s other team that plays at Gillette Stadium, the New England Revolution, might as well be the Buffalo Bills of Major League Soccer. There was a run of dominance — four M.L.S. Cup Finals appearances in six years — without a championship, and a mostly fallow period now going on a decade. The team is below .500 (125-148-89) since 2008, the year after it went to its third straight M.L.S. Cup Finals.Kraft has bigger concerns at the moment than the Revolution. He is facing two misdemeanor charges of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. (Kraft denies illegal activity.) Kraft most likely won’t face jail time, but the charges could result in a fine or a suspension or both from the National Football League, where he has become one of the most powerful owners, and from Major League Soccer, where he also enjoys a long, close relationship with the commissioner.If his attention turns back to his soccer team, he is likely to find a house in the middle of a major overhaul.“One of our strategies last year was to instill a new culture at the club,” said Brad Friedel, the former United States national team goalkeeper hired to turn around the team last year. He said a tear-down had been necessary. “We felt that there needed to be a completely different work ethic.”Friedel spoke before the Revolution’s home opener last weekend, a 2-0 loss to the Columbus Crew. He praised his team’s recent signings, but he didn’t hesitate to criticize the team he took over. “We needed leaders,” he said. “We didn’t have a lot of leaders last year.”There is no Tom Brady here.The Revolution began play in 1996, as one of Major League Soccer’s 10 original teams. Kraft, alongside Lamar Hunt and Philip Anschutz, recruited Don Garber from the N.F.L. to be the league’s commissioner, and that tight group helped keep M.L.S. afloat in the early 2000s, when it was on the verge of collapse.But while Kraft has been able to master the N.F.L., the soccer revolution in America has mostly passed him by.The Revolution are one of three M.L.S. teams that still play in cavernous football stadiums. The others, Atlanta United and the Seattle Sounders, justify it by drawing the largest average attendance figures in the league, but only 13,808 fans showed up for the Revolution’s home opener last weekend. The Revolution will draw better when there isn’t snow on the ground, of course, but last year’s average attendance ranked 16th in the league.The team has been trying to build a soccer-specific stadium somewhere in the Boston area since 2006. In the 13 years since, sites have been proposed, millions have been spent on architectural renderings, and plots of land have almost been purchased, all to eventually collapse for one reason or another. A new multimillion-dollar training center will open this season, but that too will be in Foxborough, even as the Boston stadium search goes on.“It’s about getting into a stadium that will transform soccer in our region,” the team president, Brian Bilello, said. “With that in mind, we have been patient, probably to a fault, to try and get the right project done.”In Garber’s mind, most of the Revolution’s problems would be fixed by a new stadium. “My view is their economic model is challenging in Gillette,” he said. “It has not been able to tap into the young, millennial sports fan in the Boston metropolitan area because it is further away.”The couple hundred die-hard Revolution fans tailgating in the parking lot before the home opener weren’t so sure. The stadium search has gone on for so long that they rarely get their hopes up anymore. A number of them said that it feels as if the Revolution are a distant priority for the Krafts.Bilello and Garber deny that is the case. Still, the N.F.L. is a $15 billion-a-year league, and a social, financial and cultural presence far bigger than M.L.S. Kraft sits on some of the N.F.L.’s most powerful committees. His son, Jonathan Kraft, holds those roles on M.L.S. committees and seems to handle most of the team’s day-to-day business.Last year, the Krafts spent $20 million to buy their third team, the Boston Uprising, an e-sports team that competes in the Overwatch League. The sardonic joke among some Revolution supporters is that now they’re not even the neglected second child, but something even worse: the ignored middle child.The team declined to make either Robert or Jonathan Kraft available for this article.Over the years, the Revolution have dabbled in signing higher-priced players, but none has proved a particularly large draw or game-changing addition on the field. The team now wants to give young homegrown players, like Isaac Angking, Nicolas Firmino and Justin Rennicks, a real pathway to first team minutes and success.This off-season, the team also acquired Carles Gil, a Spanish midfielder Friedel hopes will jump-start the attack, along with other players who figure to make an impact, like Edgar Castillo and Juan Fernando Caicedo. Bilello said that the team’s spending on players had been ramping up and that the Krafts were giving the team all the money it needed to compete; both Bilello and Friedel promised that another designated player — the league’s highest salary classification — would arrive in either May or July, once contractual issues could be worked out. They would not reveal the player’s identity.The team is also building a new $35 million training center adjacent to Gillette Stadium that will house both the first team and the academy. The center will feature a number of grass and artificial turf training pitches — the team’s current training pitch is covered in snow, so it has been practicing at Gillette Stadium — and the state-of-the-art facilities that, team officials hope, will help persuade new players to join.Soccer is soccer, though, and building a winning team is mostly the same the world over. The thing that makes M.L.S. unique, according to Friedel, who spent nearly two decades playing in England and other top European leagues, is that it is constantly evolving.“Whether there is a new rule, a new stadium, a new training ground, other new designated players, a new club, a new franchise, a new second division, a new third division,” he said, ticking off the list of possibilities, “all these things happened in this country because the league is growing.”The last four M.L.S. Cups have been won by teams that weren’t original league members, and the last few years have witnessed a steady expansion of the league. When M.L.S. fans think of the most exciting teams now, they are often thinking of bright new teams with bright new stadiums with bright young stars, clubs like Atlanta United and Los Angeles F.C.“At times it is easier to be new, and it is easier to be a new and improved, than it is to be a legacy business,” Garber said.In New England, they know how true this is.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A Wisconsin man who bet $85,000 on Tiger Woods to win the Masters was handed a check for $1.275 million by bookmaker William Hill on Monday.A day after Woods came from behind to win his first major title in 11 years, a video circulating online showed James Adducci picking up his check at SLS Las Vegas Hotel & Casino.The 39-year-old told Golf Digest that the 14-1 bet was his first sports wager. The stockbroker, who works from home, said he planned to spend the winnings on home improvements and paying off debts while investing the rest. Reports said the net $1.19 million payout was the largest for a single ticket golf bet in the company's history in the United States. "Pretty good first bet," Nick Bogdanovich, William Hill's U.S. director of trading, told ESPN. "It's great to see Tiger back. It's a painful day for William Hill -- our biggest loss ever -- but a great day for golf." William Hill was not the only bookmaker to feel the pain after the 43-year-old Woods secured his fifth green jacket at Augusta National. SuperBook at Westgate Las Vegas had a "high five-figure" net loss on its Masters futures, and offshore sportsbook BetOnline.ag said the surprise win produced the company's biggest loss on a futures market, ESPN said.  (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Peter Rutherford)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanWASHINGTON — The Food and Drug Administration plans to ban sales of most flavored e-cigarettes in retail stores and gas stations around the country, in an effort to reduce the popularity of vaping among young people.The agency also plans to require age-verification measures for online sales to try to ensure that minors are not able to buy the flavor pods.F.D.A. officials have been weighing measures to try to curb the use of flavored e-cigarettes among teenagers. A senior agency official said details of the plan would be announced next week, and that menthol and mint flavors would be exempt from the restrictions. The F.D.A. stopped short of including menthol flavors in the vaping sales ban, partly out of concern that some users would switch to traditional menthol-tobacco cigarettes.In a recent interview that predated this plan, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the agency’s commissioner, said he considered youth vaping a pernicious public health problem.“In order to close the on-ramp to e-cigarettes for kids, we have to put in place some speed bumps for adults,” Dr. Gottlieb said.Tobacco companies have fought cutting flavors from e-cigarettes, saying they are not aimed at youths but at adults who need them as a way to transition from tobacco cigarettes. But health advocates point to the packaging and youth appeal of a variety of flavors, including chicken and waffles, rocket Popsicle and unicorn milk as well as fruity tastes like mango.Dr. Gottlieb has called the attacks on flavored products an “unfortunate trade-off” because they could restrict access to alternatives for adults trying to quit smoking. But, he also said parents should consider their children’s use of e-cigarettes a serious health threat.“I think that there’s a perception that e-cigarettes are a safer alternative for kids,” he said, “but it can lead to a lifelong addiction, and some percentage will migrate to combustible products.”The agency’s plans were reported earlier by the Washington Post.The F.D.A.’s crackdown on flavored e-cigarettes began earlier this year, as the numbers of teenagers vaping reached epidemic proportions and the popularity of such devices soared.Juul, the blockbuster start-up, has been a primary target of agency regulators, lawmakers and concerned parents because of its dominant share of the market. Its device resembles a flash drive, and has had a stunning appeal among youths ever since it was introduced.Dr. Gottlieb focused on Juul and several other major e-cigarette makers in September, warning them to stop marketing to teenagers or risk being banned. He set a 60-day deadline for the major companies to prove they could keep their devices away from minors, and that timetable ends this weekend.At the same time, the F.D.A. also warned 1,100 retailers to stop selling the devices to minors, and issues fines to some of them.The latest actions follow months of meetings between the F.D.A. and e-cigarette makers over how to prevent teenagers from getting hooked on their products.Juul, which has more than 70 percent of the nation’s e-cigarette market and has become ubiquitous in many high schools and middle schools, submitted thousands of pages of marketing documents and related materials. But the regulators, not satisfied, then visited the company’s San Francisco headquarters in September and seized more.The four other products facing the 60-day deadline were RJR Vapor Co.’s Vuse, Imperial Brands’ blu and devices made by Logic. None of the companies responded to immediate requests for comment.RJR, Imperial and Altria are all major tobacco companies, which along with other industry heavyweights have viewed e-cigarettes as critical to their survival now that smoking rates have declined to their lowest levels in the United States.In a new report, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that the cigarette smoking rate in the United States dropped to an estimated 14 percent of adults in 2017. That is a 67-percent decline from 1965, when a national health survey began tracking smoking rates.In a statement last week, Dr. Gottlieb said that some of the companies he had met with also seemed to support raising the minimum age for buying tobacco products sales to 21 years.Last year, Dr. Gottlieb gave the e-cigarette manufacturers five more years to meet standards that they prove their products are a safe alternative to tobacco cigarettes. The agency is also considering requiring lower levels of nicotine in cigarettes, although some companies have questioned how much authority the F.D.A. has to impose tougher limits.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byin her wordsSerena Williams’s new all-female Nike ad, “Dream Crazier,” hit on an issue almost as old as time: the “hysterical” woman. By Maya SalamWelcome to In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“If they want to call you crazy, fine. Show them what crazy can do.” — Serena Williams, in a new Nike ad about women in sportsThere is probably no better woman than Serena Williams to lead the charge of reclaiming the word “crazy.” In the past six months, she’s been penalized, fined and criticized for what she has said, has done, has worn and looks like — being called “crazy” by detractors all the while. Her ability to flourish in spite of it has further endeared her to her legion of supporters, so it was no surprise when fans went, well, crazy on Sunday night when Williams’s new all-female Nike ad, “Dream Crazier,” premiered during the Oscars. (It’s already racked up over six million views on YouTube.)The spot is a montage of some of the world’s greatest athletes doing what they do best, and defying authority while they do it. Williams, narrating, says women who express their emotions, their passion and their opinions have been called dramatic, nuts, delusional, unhinged, hysterical, irrational or crazy — seemingly reaching beyond the sports world to how women in all walks have been treated throughout time.Women being labeled hysterical or crazy as a way to degrade them dates back centuries. “Hysteria” — which comes from the Greek word for womb, hystera — was one of the first mental health conditions attributed to only women. “The idea was that any emotional display beyond the fairly tight boundaries of what was acceptable could be called hysteria,” Elaine Showalter, a feminist scholar who wrote an essay titled “Hysteria, Feminism and Gender,” told me this week. (For example, newly released letters revealed that Charles Dickens tried to have his wife, the mother of his 10 children, imprisoned in an asylum while he pursued an affair. He claimed his wife’s “excitability” as sufficient basis for “moral insanity,” which at the time it was.)[Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox.]The real politicization of the word, Showalter said, began around 1890 with the early suffrage movement and the rise of “the new woman”: an independent, challenging, confident, adventurous woman who laid claim to her emotions.“That’s what the ad was getting at,” said Showalter, who is professor emerita of English at Princeton University.During that time, hysterical and crazy were used mostly against two groups of women: those demanding entry to universities, particularly medical schools (“they’re going to overwork their brains” was an argument) and women who spoke publicly (they were seen as “abnormal, threatening and repulsive,” according to Showalter).“Speaking out in public was so taboo and considered so unfeminine, any form of it was denounced as hysterical,” Showalter said. Sound familiar? In 2017, Senator Kamala Harris was called “hysterical” by the former Trump aide Jason Miller for doing her job. (During a hearing, senators on the Senate Intelligence Committee, including Harris, were each allotted time to ask Jeff Sessions, then attorney general, about his involvement with Russians during the 2016 election.) When pressed as to how she was hysterical, Miller replied, “I mean, she was asking some tough questions.” Serena Williams has long encouraged young women to assert themselves — echoing leaders of the past. Experienced suffragists would embolden younger women, Showalter said. “They’d say: ‘Don’t be afraid, you’re going to have to do it. You go out and speak in public, speak your mind and really say what you mean to say.’” [READ MORE: Women Are Penalized for Anger at Work, Especially Black Women]______If you watched Sunday’s Oscars ceremony, you probably caught the director Rayka Zehtabchi’s acceptance speech for her documentary “Period. End of Sentence.” — about the stigma of menstruation in a rural Indian village. “I’m not crying because I’m on my period,” Zehtabchi said. “I can’t believe a film about menstruation just won an Oscar!”What you might have missed was that an anonymous Oscar voter called the movie “icky” on his ballot. The film is “well done, but it’s about women getting their period, and I don't think any man is voting for this film because it’s just icky for men,” he wrote, according to The Hollywood Reporter. ______Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.“I was a ‘me’ before #MeToo,” writes Lisa VanAllen, who testified against R. Kelly in a 2008 criminal trial. Last week, Kelly was charged with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse. [Read the story]“Thank you for honoring African royalty and the empowered way women can look and lead onscreen.” Hannah Beachler and Ruth E. Carter made Oscar history for black women. [Read the story]“Girls’ feelings matter, too.” Thanks to shows like “PEN15 and “Big Mouth,” the awkward, sex-obsessed pubescent girl is having a moment, writes Amanda Hess, a Times culture critic. [Read the story]“This is Captain Kate, but you can call me Captain.” Kate McCue, who became the first American woman to captain a cruise ship in 2015, will soon be at the helm of a billion-dollar ship designed by women. [Read the story]“Stop counting women.” We’re too far from parity among men and women for anyone to claim the current system is just, writes Katherine Mangu-Ward, who runs Reason magazine. [Read the story]______You didn’t think the 19th Amendment, which granted women the right to vote in 1920, went unchallenged, did you? This week in 1922, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the amendment was valid despite various efforts to discredit it. The challengers (namely Maryland, Tennessee and West Virginia) argued that the amendment had not been properly adopted or that it was unconstitutional. After the court’s ruling, Alice Paul, vice president of the National Woman’s Party, declared the decision a “final and complete official recognition of the victory of a 72-year campaign by the women of the United States.” Next up, she said, was the fight for equality in political office, marriage, property, wages and children.Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox.Are you on Instagram? Follow us here.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeEMERSON, Ga. — Just past the Hampton Inn and the Chick-fil-A, beyond the climbing wall but not as far as the water park, is your field of dreams. Actually, there are eight of them: all major league-sized, synthetic-turfed and LED-lit, and wedged in next to the three soccer pitches. The Champions Center is ahead on your left, where a dozen basketball courts can be converted into two dozen for volleyball.It is here at the LakePoint Sporting Community where the visiting boys and girls in their cleats and their uniforms have come to play, with their parents trailing them from the diamonds and the hardwood to the fast-food restaurants and the hotels. In the summer, hundreds of teams pass through here every week.The youth sports economy — a world of private coaching, interstate travel and $350 baseball bats — has always been big business, of course. But fed by the growth of traveling teams and regional and national events, the industry has doubled in size over the past decade — to more than $15 billion a year, according to one company that tracks its growth — as tournament organizers, property developers and a handful of small towns target parents who share their young athletes’ dreams of glory and have the money to pursue them.As families travel more miles so their children can play more games and be seen by more college recruiters, sprawling complexes like The Grand Park Sports Campus in Westfield, Ind., Rocky Top Sports World in Gatlinburg, Tenn., and LakePoint have fine-tuned both their facilities and their programs to attract millions of visitors every year. And as they have succeeded, these megacomplexes — and other hybrid sports/vacation destinations like them — have become staples of yet another growing youth sports phenomenon: the tourna-cation circuit.“The plan is to be like a cruise ship for youth sports,” said Bob Zurcher, the chief financial officer of LakePoint Land, which has helped turn Emerson, a town of 1,500 about 40 miles north of Atlanta, into an unlikely year-round tourist destination. “You give them first-class competition and facilities, then try to give them everything else they need right here.”A  study published by Utah State University in 2014 found that American families spent an average of $2,292 each year on youth sports. But it also found many households that spent as much as 10.5 percent of their gross income annually — sometimes $20,000 or more — on personal trainers, travel costs and private teams for their children.“They may be holding back on vacation or on a car, but they will make certain that Susie goes to the cheerleading competition in Orlando and Johnny gets to his Little League tournament in Georgia,” said Mary Helen Sprecher, the managing editor of Sports Destination Management, a trade publication for event managers and rights holders. “These youth complexes have become part of the sports ecosystem by putting heads in beds, filling up restaurants and delivering economic impact.”The miles, and the costs, can add up quickly. The Peach State Basketball Classic at LakePoint in July, for example, was only a midseason stop for Scott Wyatt and his 16-year-old daughter, Claire. Her team, the Tennessee Fury, was coming from a girls tournament in Louisville that had attracted more than 800 squads, and it would head to an event in Atlanta a few days later.Wyatt, a pharmacist in Knoxville, Tenn., stayed with his wife and daughter at the Holiday Inn, as the tournament required. The Fury’s game schedule was tight, which meant the families’ meal options were largely limited to the Taco Bell or the Chick-fil-A or the pizza restaurant near the complex. LakePoint officials said out-of-town visitors spend an average of $122 per person a day; for locals, it’s about half that.Over two nights and three days, Wyatt said, his family expected to spend about $800 here, or about one-third the $2,550 their trip to Louisville had cost. The three-day tournament in Atlanta that followed would add more to their tab. Toss in an earlier trip to Raleigh, N.C., and Wyatt estimated that the summer travel basketball schedule for Claire, a 6-foot-1 junior, would cost the family about $6,000.“We’re trying to get college scholarships — that’s the only reason we are here,” Wyatt said. “The whole goal to get these girls in a school and some of it paid for.”The Peach State Basketball Classic was considered a boutique exposure tournament for the nearly 100 teams that participated, and there were college coaches carrying clipboards roaming the special lanes between courts reserved for them — set up to allow them to watch players away from parents. The coaches wore shirts bearing the logos of every kind of program: Bible colleges and Ivy League universities, big state schools and small liberal arts institutions. Signs for scouting services and sneaker companies surrounded the courts.Earlier in the year, the big shoe companies — Nike, Adidas and Under Armour — all had hosted top-tier boys tournaments here that drew some of the biggest names in college basketball: Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski, Kentucky’s John Calipari, Villanova’s Jay Wright. Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder turned up to check in on an A.A.U. team that he sponsors, and the former Miami Heat guard Dwyane Wade came to watch one of his sons play.Other weeks, the complex’s focus switches effortlessly between baseball and volleyball, soccer and cheerleading.For the players and their parents, though, the potential payoff is worth the sizable investment of time and money. N.C.A.A. member universities hand out about $3 billion in scholarships a year. And while the organization reminds parents that only 2 percent of high school athletes are awarded athletic scholarships, the pursuit of even a microscopic share of those billions continues to drive the youth sports economy.Disney was among the first to recognize this emerging market, and in 1997 it dived in by creating the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex on the grounds of its Disney World theme park in Orlando, Fla. The 220-acre complex has nine venues — including a tennis center, outdoor fields, indoor courts and field houses — and hosts annual events like the Pop Warner football and national cheer and dance championships.In 2016, the Wide World of Sports complex drew more than 385,285 athletes, a 28 percent increase since 2011. But perhaps just as important to Disney was that the athletes and their families stayed in Disney hotels, ate at Disney restaurants, rode on Disney rides and luxuriated in Disney spas — and that the investment in sports facilities was introducing another generation of children to the company’s brands. In the years that followed, imitators popped up in amusement park towns like Sandusky, Ohio, and tourist destinations like Myrtle Beach, S.C.Entering the market was a steeper climb, however, for communities like Emerson, in Bartow County, where the youth sports facilities had to be built from scratch — along with the infrastructure and every other supporting business and service.Peter Olson, the county administrator, recalled the original developers’ offering a succinct pitch for the 1,300 acres here along Interstate 75. “We’ll build the ocean,” Olson said they told him, “and then the beach will be valuable.”The county offered the developers a tax abatement for 10 years and financed the Champions Center with $36 million in bonds from its development authority. Since opening in 2014, more than 3 million visitors from all 50 states have come to play here, producing what the county said was an annual economic impact of $97.4 million. Food, bar and hotel revenue in the county, Olson said, was up 80 percent.“We have some skin in the game,” he said.There also have been some missteps. Building a massive youth sports development is a capital-intensive project, and the original investors ran out of cash after only 100 acres had been developed. In June, a hedge fund based near Los Angeles, Rimrock Capital Management, took the complex into Chapter 11 bankruptcy and, as the major creditor, decided to try to turn its debt into equity.“They are doubling down,” said Dan Berman, a senior managing director of GlassRatner Advisory & Capital Group, the Atlanta-based firm Rimrock brought in to restructure the deal.With more than $100 million already at work, a priority is more hotels and restaurants: Signs marking the future homes of a Holiday Inn Express and a Spring Hill Suites stand alongside the bulldozers creating the roads that will connect them with the sprawling LakePoint complex. Berman said more sports facilities were a certainty, but Rimrock is also exploring more options, like added amusement attractions and a convention center.In the meantime, and with summer over, lacrosse and soccer tournaments and flag football leagues are expected to keep the outdoor fields busy through the spring. The Champions Center is booked through next summer with cheerleading competitions and volleyball, basketball and futsal tournaments.With new youth sports complexes popping up throughout the nation, including two projects in neighboring Alabama, Dean Keener, a senior vice president who helps manage the indoor facilities, said the youth sports industry had become as competitive — and as potentially lucrative — as his old profession: He is the former men’s basketball coach at James Madison University.“It’s a lot like college recruiting,” Keener said. “You’ve got to sleep with one eye open.“You sign someone and you may be on to the next recruiting class, but these complexes continue to go up and you can’t rest on what you’ve done or you’ll be out of business.”Follow Joe Drape on Twitter: @joedrape.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Caroline Crosson GilpinWhat sports do you play? Are you happy with the amount of time you spend playing these sports? Why or why not?Who decides which sports you play, and how much time you devote to each?In “How to Avoid Burnout in Youth Sports,” Jane E. Brody writes:Few would dispute the value to children of participating in sports, organized or otherwise. Being physically active and engaged in friendly competition is widely acknowledged to be good for children’s physical, mental and social well-being. It can foster discipline, cooperation and camaraderie as well as a good time.When I was growing up in Brooklyn in the 1940s and ’50s, we were free to play games and sports that we chose or devised. We picked teams, made the rules and enforced them ourselves. No officials monitored our activities and no adults oversaw or commented on how well or poorly we played. Sure, there were occasional spats, but we learned how to resolve them on our own and get back to having fun.But the concept of free play has since yielded to adult-controlled games and hopes for glory among many of today’s parents. The way youth sports is promoted in many parts of the country these days can be anything but good for the children who engage in them, according to leading experts who described their findings at the annual meeting of the American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons in March.Today, adults are most often the organizers and enforcers of youth sports, and too often they get in the way of their children’s best interests, these experts say.Many parents encourage specialization in a given sport in which their children, often at very young ages, seem to show an interest or aptitude. Notions of college scholarships or professional glory often dance in the backs — or fronts — of parental minds, with some uprooting the entire family to give their kids a leg up.As Dr. Charles A. Popkin, pediatric orthopedic surgeon at Columbia University Medical Center, said at the meeting, “Sadly, what parents want and what parents hope to gain from their children’s participation in youth sports is often at a significant extreme to what the kids actually want.”Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— Do you agree with the article that “healthy competition is becoming unhealthy” because students are specializing in one sport to the exclusion of other sports? Why or why not?— Have you or any of your friends been injured or experienced sports burnout? What happened, if so, and why?— In your opinion, how young is too young to begin specializing in a sport?— How much does adult pressure influence your sports participation, and why?— What are the benefits and the disadvantages, in your view, of parental involvement in youth sports for children?— If you could change anything about youth sports, what would it be and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders urge the Food and Drug Administration to act more decisively.To the Editor:Re “F.D.A. Seeks Restrictions on Teens’ Access to Flavored E-Cigarettes and a Ban on Menthol Cigarettes” (Nov. 15):I’ve spoken with the Food and Drug Administration commissioner, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, on numerous occasions and have stressed to him the importance of tackling youth e-cigarette use, a growing national epidemic. So while I’m encouraged by the agency’s announcement, I feel that it is insufficient to fully address the problem at hand.The agency’s proposal to ban flavored cigars and menthol in cigarettes could be a game changer. I applaud it for this potentially lifesaving decision and urge the agency to quickly move forward with implementation.But young people are clever and resourceful and will find a way to obtain flavored e-cigarettes, as long as the devices remain on the market. Anything short of an outright ban puts an entire generation at risk of nicotine addiction.Nita LoweyWashingtonThe writer, a Democrat, represents New York’s 17th District in the House.To the Editor: The latest numbers are staggering: More than 3.6 million adolescents are using flavored nicotine-delivery systems like Juul, with a 78 percent increase for high school students and 48 percent among middle school students since last year alone. While we applaud the Food and Drug Administration for making restrictive measures in some retail outlets, we believe that since research shows that flavors hook children, we need a total ban on all flavors to combat this adolescent public-health crisis and prevent younger children from starting. The agency’s most serious moves focus on banning menthol cigarettes; that is very important, but not at all relevant to the problem of nicotine-addicted children who are “Juuling” without realizing that they are ingesting not only nicotine, which changes their developing brains, but also a cocktail of toxins whose dangerous effects may not be known for years. Dina Colombo AlessiMeredith BerkmanDorian Flynn FuhrmanNew YorkThe writers are co-founders of Parents Against Vaping E-Cigarettes.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA French store dropped a plan to sell a hijab designed for runners after becoming embroiled in the country's debate about what Muslim women wear.By Elian Peltier and Aurelien BreedenPARIS — Plans by a major sporting goods company in France to sell a hijab designed for runners have incited yet another debate over what Muslim women wear, exposing once again the tensions between secularism and religion in the country.France’s longstanding attitudes toward feminism, secularism and the integration of immigrants are at the root of the many controversies, but they are also fueled by recent fears about Islamist terrorism, along with the rise of social media.The most recent debate centers on plans by Decathlon, Europe’s largest sporting goods retailer, to sell the hijab, which covers the wearer’s head and neck. Criticism quickly came from many quarters, with one lawmaker saying that the debate laid bare “this obsession around the veil and Islam.”Decathlon had started selling the sports hijab in Morocco last week and planned to do so in France. The move was quickly criticized on social media, and several politicians expressed discomfort about the product being sold in France. Some even suggested a boycott.“My choice as a woman and a citizen will be to no longer trust a brand that breaks with our values,” said Aurore Bergé, a spokeswoman for Republic on the Move, President Emmanuel Macron’s party. “Those who tolerate women in the public space only when they are hiding are not lovers of freedom.”Decathlon initially stood firm, arguing that it was focused on “democratizing” sports and that Muslim women often ran with “ill-adapted” hijabs.“Our goal is simple: to offer them a suitable sports product, without judging,” the company said in a statement on Twitter.It’s unclear why Decathlon became the focus of such criticism. Nike already sells hijabs for runners in France, but it has not faced the same scrutiny, possibly because it’s not a French brand. Some politicians defended Decathlon, with Aurélien Taché, a representative from Mr. Macron’s party, saying that France “would do well” without “this obsession around the veil and Islam.”But Decathlon backtracked and on Tuesday, halting its plans to sell the sports hijab in France after — it said — salespeople were threatened in stores, some physically, and after it received hundreds of calls and emails.One message accused the company of “betraying” France and “contributing to the Islamist invasion,” the company said.Since 2011, it has been illegal to wear a face-covering veil in public in France, but the hijab does not fall into that category. Still, in recent years, Muslim women wearing the hijab and other garments have prompted friction — locally and on a national scale.Last year, Maryam Pougetoux, a student union leader drew public ire after appearing on television wearing a head scarf.In the summer of 2016, a nationwide debate erupted over the “burkini,” the full-body bathing suit designed for practicing Muslim women; the item was briefly banned in some coastal towns in southern France.In some cases, other pieces of clothing have become the target of critics. In 2015, a French school sent a 15-year-old student home, saying that her long skirt was an “ostentatious sign” of her Muslim faith. Since 2004, it has been illegal for students to wear any visible signs of religious affiliation.Laïcité, the concept of state secularism, is a defining principle of the French republic, but it has often been a point of friction between Muslims and the state. “France is a very secular society, which can be very virulent against any kind of religious expression, even those that are legal or do not threaten public order,” said Nicolas Cadène, a senior member of the Observatory of Secularism, an agency that assists the government in enforcing laïcité. The European Union’s highest court ruled in 2017 that employer bans on hijabs in the private sector could be legal. But the debate about the veil is no longer about its legality, but rather its symbolism. On the right and far right, it is often seen as a rebuke of France’s secular values and a sign of a lack of integration. Across the political spectrum, the veil is often seen as an intrinsic symbol of submission that goes against gender equality, even when worn freely. Some feminists say that wearing it sends the wrong signal to women elsewhere in the world who are fighting to live without it.Marlène Schiappa, the junior minister for gender equality, wrote in The HuffPost on Wednesday that women should be allowed to wear the hijab, but that it was necessary to “question that choice.”But others feminists and politicians on the left, as well as Muslim advocacy groups, argue that it is hypocritical to say hijab-wearing women are withdrawing from French society while criticizing garments like the burkini or sports hijabs designed to help them feel comfortable in public life.Sylvie Eberena, 38, a Muslim entrepreneur and coach who runs a fitness website, said she found the discussions over attire “exhausting.”“It’s not about politics or religion,” she said. “Every human being wants to feel good within their own bodies, so if a piece of clothing can help with that, why not?”Since she began appearing in fitness videos wearing her hijab nearly a decade ago, Ms. Eberena said, she has seen many more veiled women practicing sports.Laura Cha, a spokeswoman for the Muslim feminist organization Lallab, added that “for those who are not directly impacted by the hijab, it’s just one more controversy, but for Muslim women, it has some nefarious, long-lasting consequences.”“It’s a shame that Decathlon didn’t stand firm,” Laetitia Gahoudi, 37, a Muslim entrepreneur and personal trainer, said on Wednesday. “But we didn’t wait for Decathlon to sell a runner’s hijab to work out with our head scarves. And we will keep working out without them.”Elian Peltier, a reporter in the Paris bureau covering France, has been writing for The Times since 2015.  @ElianPeltier Aurelien Breeden joined the Paris bureau, where he covers France, in 2014. He has reported on some the worst terrorist attacks to hit the country, the dismantling of the migrant camp in Calais and France's tumultuous 2017 presidential election.
   @aurelienbrd    @aurelienbrd Advertisement