AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleAre you ready for March Madness?On Sunday, the N.C.A.A. announced the 68 teams that will compete in the 2019 Division I men’s basketball tournament from Tuesday through April 8.About 47 million people — one in five American adults — are expected to bet a combined $8.5 billion on the tournament.Will you watch any of the games? Will you fill out a bracket? Who do you think will win the tournament?In “N.C.A.A. Tournament: Duke and the A.C.C. Rule the Bracket,” Marc Tracy writes:Duke was given the No. 1 overall seed in the N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball tournament Sunday night, starting Coach Mike Krzyzewski and his star freshman Zion Williamson on a path to what they hope will be the Blue Devils’ sixth national title.Duke (29-5) was one of three Atlantic Coast Conference teams to receive top seeds, joining Virginia (29-3) and North Carolina (27-6). It was the second time members of the same conference were named three of the four No. 1s; the Big East did so in 2009.The fourth No. 1 seed was Gonzaga (30-3), the small stalwart from Spokane, Wash. While the Bulldogs lost the West Coast Conference title game to St. Mary’s last week, they already have a win over Duke on their résumé from a tournament in late November in Hawaii.Of course, a top seed is no ticket to the Final Four in Minneapolis. Or even to the second round. Last year, for the first time in 136 such games, a No. 16 seed defeated a No. 1 when the University of Maryland-Baltimore County stunned Virginia.And in, “Six N.C.A.A. Upset Picks to Enliven Your Bracket,” Mr. Tracy writes:We call them upsets. But unless you root for the team on the wrong end of one, they are the happiest things on Earth. They should be called overjoyeds.There are two kinds of tournament underdogs. There is the team that makes an unlikely deep run — to the second weekend, the regional final, the Final Four — by artfully dodging the biggest threats, by emerging as a great squad in its own right. Then there is the team that knocks off a contender before normalcy reasserts itself. The first kind is a new planet, or an aged single-malt scotch; the second kind is a comet, or a tequila shot.Here are some tequila shots. No predictions are made for this year’s Loyola-Chicago, the No. 11 seed that made last year’s Final Four through the blessings of Sister Jean, good shooting and the luck of facing a No. 9 seed in the regional final.Rather, these six teams stand a better chance of winning their first games than you — and, more important, the other people in your pool — might think. Don’t sleep on the unlikeliest likeliest of all, at the bottom.Here are two of Mr. Tracy’s upset picks:No. 12 vs. No. 5Murray State Will Beat MarquetteWHY IT WILL HAPPEN Basketball is a team sport, sure, but sometimes you just want to know which team has the best player on the court. And with all due respect to the Golden Eagles’ sensational Markus Howard, the answer is Murray State — thanks to high-flying guard Ja Morant, a sophomore who has played his way into N.B.A. lottery pick status.No. 14 vs. No. 3Yale Will Beat Louisiana StateWHY IT WILL HAPPEN It is refreshing that, this year, the jokes will not be about Ivy League elitism but Ivy League corruption: This is a positive development for the democratic sensibility. Unfortunately (or fortunately), the Ivy League remains one of the better midmajor conferences; it has gone 4-6 in opening N.C.A.A. tournament games over the last 10 seasons. This year’s Bulldogs were the league’s best team, per KenPom.com, and the team boasts an N.B.A. prospect in the junior Miye Oni.Students, choose one of the articles and read it in its entirety, then tell us:— How excited are you about March Madness? Will you watch or go to any of the games? Which teams are you rooting for?— Will you fill out a bracket or join a pool this year? If so, what do you like about doing it, and why? Is the bracket competition more fun than the actual games? Why or why not?— Which teams do you predict will be in the Final Four? Who will win? Will there be any major upsets this year? What matchups are you most looking forward to watching? Do you agree with any of Mr. Tracy’s picks?— Will you be watching any of the games in the women’s Division I bracket, which was announced on Monday? Baylor (31-1), Mississippi State (30-2), Louisville (29-3) and Notre Dame (30-3) earned No. 1 seeds in this year’s field.— If basketball isn’t your thing, what bracket-style competition can you imagine that you might enjoy more? For instance, maybe you’d like to participate in March Book Madness?Related New York Times ResourcesFor more inspiration, see the Learning Network’s March Madness: Using Tournament Brackets to Debate Academic Questions.Other ResourcesMaximize Learning During the Madness of MarchStudents 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — A blizzard of bets from college basketball fans in March helped New Jersey to its second-highest monthly sports betting total, as March Madness translated into March Gladness for sports books.More than $372 million in sports bets were made in the state last month. That brings New Jersey's total since sports betting began last June to over $2.3 billion.After paying off winning bets and accounting for expenses, New Jersey's sports books have made over $63 million from sports betting and paid $7.7 million in state taxes in the first three months of this year. New Jersey and Delaware are the only states with newly legalized sports betting to meet their tax revenue projections from the betting.Several sports books said the number of bets on the college basketball tournament and their dollar amounts exceeded those from the NFL's Super Bowl."In this year's first ever March Madness with legalized betting available, U.S. bettors further proved to be fervent college basketball fans, and submitted more bets on DraftKings Sportsbook for the opening weekend of the NCAA Tournament alone than the Super Bowl," said Jamie Shea, the company's head of digital sportsbook operations. "While March had certainly been marked on our calendars before, this past tournament gave us a glimpse into the staggering business potential of college basketball in an expanded regulated betting market."FanDuel, whose sportsbook at the Meadowlands Racetrack in East Rutherford, near New York City, continues to lead the state in sports betting revenue at more than $32 million this year, said it had the best month any New Jersey operator has had since sports betting began in the state, earning $17.6 million. Monmouth Park Racetrack in Oceanport has made $5.4 million from sports bets so far this year.PlaySugarhouse saw its active users increase by 40% during the first week of the college basketball tournament compared to the week before, and its March revenue was up 23% compared to February.Of the nearly $1.1 billion in bets taken by New Jersey sportsbooks so far this year, more than $862,000 were made online. Several other states are struggling with whether to allow online sports betting as part of bills they are considering.Atlantic City's nine casinos and the two New Jersey racetracks that offer sports betting saw $294 million in casino gambling and sports betting revenue in March, up more than 34% from a year earlier. Only three casinos reported a revenue decline that month, with six showing an increase. Part of the increased total revenue is due to the fact that last March there were only seven casinos operating in Atlantic City, compared with nine now.The Borgata, as usual, led the pack with $65.7 million in March, up 1.3% from a year ago. The casino had its best March ever in terms of gross slot win ($41.7 million) and net slot win ($35 million), which excludes promotional credits given to gamblers.The Golden Nugget inched back into the No. 2 spot at $32 million, up 14% from a year ago. Tropicana was next at $31.3 million, down 4.2%, followed by Harrah's at $26.5 million, down 16.1%, and Caesars at $22.8 million, up 4.3%. Bally's took in $15.3 million, down 2.6%, and Resorts took in $15 million, up 1.2%.Among the two new casinos that opened last June, Hard Rock took in $26.3 million, and the Ocean Casino Resort took in $17.6 million.The casinos also were aided by more than $39 million in internet winnings, an increase of 53% compared to March 2018. Among internet-only entities, Resorts Digital more than tripled its revenue from a year ago to $15.7 million, and Caesars Interactive-NJ was up 16.4% to $5.1 million.______This story has been corrected to show that the $294 million in revenue was won by the nine casinos and the two horse tracks that offer sports betting, not just the casinos.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy John BranchJack Bowen is an author of a book on sports and ethics, and teaches high school courses on ethics and philosophy. When it came time to fill out a bracket for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament for a pool at work this year, he did not feel right about it.Given the scandals that plague college basketball, including several teams and coaches that have advanced to this week’s round of 16 games, not filling out a bracket was one ethicist’s form of quiet protest.“I chose not to do the men’s bracket, but I am doing the women’s bracket,” Bowen said, and he laughed at the questionable line he drew. “Now, what have I done here?”What are any of us doing here?Every March, millions of Americans fill out brackets (more than 40 million people, by one count), cheer the underdogs and tune in on television. Others buy tickets to the games, wear jerseys of their favorite teams and let wins and losses dictate their mood.Yet fans who follow college basketball closely know about the game’s intractable relationship to corruption. Even many who come just for March Madness must know that the real madness is not always on the court.A wide-ranging and fear-inducing F.B.I. investigation into college basketball recruiting continues to ensnare big-name colleges and little-known crooks. It is why Louisiana State, for example, is playing without its head coach, Will Wade, and why Auburn recently had an assistant coach suspended and a former assistant plead guilty of conspiracy for accepting bribes.This week, the lawyer Michael Avenatti was charged with trying to extort up to $25 million from Nike in exchange for concealing information he had about illicit payments to recruits. He has since revealed some allegations on Twitter. Among them: Oregon’s injured center Bol Bol was paid to join the Ducks, he said. Oregon, one of the 16 teams still in the tournament, denied the allegation.“We go through periods of cleansing, where we all start to think something’s not quite right,” Jim Haney, the executive director of the National Association of Basketball Coaches, said. “College basketball is now going through one of those periods. In the best interests of the game, sometimes you have to go through these because you’re not able to do it on your own.”For fans, as much as ever, this N.C.A.A. tournament serves as a taste test for our unholy appetites.It is called “moral dissonance,” Bowen said, “where someone thinks, ‘Gosh, this is unethical, but I love it so much, and my friends and I have such a good time rooting and cheering that I’m going to participate anyway.’”Steven Mintz, a professor emeritus at California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo who writes a blog called Ethics Sage, called it “ethical blindness.”“Some people say, ‘We can live with this, simply for the love of the game,’” Mintz said.Such internal debates permeate our culture. Is it O.K. to dance to a Michael Jackson song, to laugh to a Louis C.K. joke, to watch a movie produced by Harvey Weinstein? To cheer for football knowing what it may be doing to players’ brains?In this case, is it O.K. to fill out brackets, root for winners and perhaps invest financially in programs that run afoul of rules, knowing what we know while, perhaps reasonably, suspecting worse?“We do have these quandaries that we face, and it’s important for us to think about them,” said Shawn Klein, who teaches philosophy and sports ethics at Arizona State. “Even if our conclusions about how we should act don’t necessarily change how we do act, it’s important that we’re aware of the balance we have here.”The topic in college basketball is an old one, freshened by the latest news. Louisiana State has the familiar ingredients of a championship contender: a premier point guard, a bevy of tall underclassmen looking to leave for the N.B.A. and a hint of scandal.Seeded third in the East Region, and led by the interim coach Tony Benford, Louisiana State squeezed past 14th-seeded Yale in the first round, then slipped past sixth-seeded Maryland in the second. Next it faces second-seeded Michigan State. A victory might get Louisiana State a Sunday date with No. 1 Duke for a spot in the Final Four.Louisiana State’s season began in tragedy, with the shooting death of one of its players, Wayde Sims, on the eve of preseason practices. Now it climaxes in the most N.C.A.A. way possible, with each victory treated as either a feel-good story of redemption or a cautious tale of corruption.“Whatever has happened to sour this L.S.U. season, it is all forgotten for now,” the Baton Rouge Advocate columnist Scott Rabalais wrote over the weekend.It might be a mantra for most teams through the annual tournament.As Sports Illustrated pointed out last week, the teams with the most Final Four appearances in history are North Carolina, U.C.L.A., Kentucky, Duke and Kansas. But next on the list, if it were a university, would be Vacated — the euphemism given to appearances later wiped from the record by scandal.It is easy to imagine Vacated making a future run in this year’s tournament.A yearslong F.B.I. investigation burst into public view in late 2017, exposing the type of black-market underbelly long presumed in college sports, especially men’s basketball. At its heart were top-tier men’s basketball programs, shoe manufacturers and prized recruits, along with the sticky web of middlemen that laced so many of them together. Ten men were arrested, including assistant coaches for four top programs.Waves from the investigation continue to wash detritus to shore as cases flow through the court system. A year ago, Yahoo Sports reported that the F.B.I.’s investigation had implicated at least 25 programs. Among them were six members of this year’s round of 16, including three No. 1 seeds — Duke, North Carolina and Virginia — and second-seeded Kentucky.So far, none have been publicly outed for transgressions related directly to the F.B.I. case, but at least one entire region will be contested this weekend with teams playing under an ethical cloud.In addition to North Carolina, which avoided punishment in a massive academic-fraud case only by threading a legal needle, the rest of the four-team Midwest Region includes fifth-seeded Auburn, whose coach, Bruce Pearl, was fired by Tennessee in 2011 after he lied during an N.C.A.A. investigation; third-seeded Houston, coached by Kelvin Sampson, who spent years in exile after being forced out at Oklahoma and Indiana over recruiting violations; and Kentucky, whose coach, John Calipari, led two programs later forced to vacate Final Four appearances.Not all coaches and programs in the field have been similarly tainted, but their mere presence at the top of the sport clouds them with suspicion. Paying college athletes is a popular idea waved like a magic wand, as if that would forgive the rule-breaking under the current system and not create complex logistical and ethical problems of a different sort.Little of this conversation ever breaks through the cheers surrounding the N.C.A.A. tournament. It is rarely discussed earnestly on CBS, which is paying the N.C.A.A. nearly $1 billion a year, on average, to televise the tournament through 2032.The issue for fans, especially this time of year, is a matter of complicity. Does supporting certain teams, or an entire enterprise known to foster unethical behavior — including, some argue, not sharing its financial riches with its labor force — condemn those who watch, cheer or fill in brackets?Klein, the philosophy lecturer at Arizona State, said we live in a “culture of outrage,” with societal pressures to disengage from everything some find troubling.“It seems an overburdened obligation that we know the moral status of every aspect of every institution and everything we participate in, and are able to figure out the proper balance to decide whether or not we should interact with it,” Klein said. “That’s just not doable.”Allegiances to teams are “an identity issue,” he said, “part of how you see yourself,” not unlike a long-term relationship with family and friends. Fans of certain teams, even if those teams are clouded in controversy, tend to defend them, even if their vision is viewed through team-colors-tinted glasses.“When something happens that you think is wrong, that you’re morally critical of, you don’t necessarily walk away from that relationship,” Klein said.At some point, of course, maybe you do. But Haney, from the National Association of Basketball Coaches, holds a similar view.“Just as you can have a friend who’s done something to you, but because you like them, you love them, you stay with them,” Haney said. “You don’t turn your back on them, knowing that change is coming.”“Fandom is not a rational pursuit from the get-go,” said Bowen, who helped write “Sport, Ethics and Leadership,” a textbook. “The joy is that it’s an emotional experience, a great getaway. We want that. But on the flip side, emotion hijacks reason all the time.”By the way, while he did not participate in his office pool for the men’s tournament, Bowen said he and his children filled out brackets at home.It is complicated. Maybe like the bracket itself, no one gets it exactly right.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the university where Will Wade is a coach. It is L.S.U., not Auburn.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderEliza Shapiro, a reporter for The Times explained why March was an important month for those covering New York City public schools, America’s largest school system. By Eliza ShapiroTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.I always have a mental red circle around the date that tens of thousands of eighth-grade students in New York City find out if they got into one of the city’s most selective high schools.For most people, March is synonymous with college basketball brackets or the end of winter. For me, after five years covering the New York City public school system, America’s largest, first for Politico and now for The Times, March means one thing: specialized high school admissions results.A seat at one of the eight specialized high schools, and especially Stuyvesant High School, is seen as an educational golden ticket in a city where many public schools are underperforming. Students gain entry by acing a high-stakes exam, and some children spend years preparing. Though these schools have been made famous by their excellent academics and tendency to produce successful alumni, they have recently become known for their lack of black and Hispanic students.Last year, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a plan that would eliminate the entrance exam and replace it with a system that gives spots to top performers from every middle school. Mr. de Blasio, whose own son attended a specialized school, has said the statistics were unacceptable and needed to change.[Eliza Shapiro answered reader questions about black admission at Stuyvesant.]That proposal has quickly snowballed into one of the biggest fights in New York City politics — alumni groups and Asian-American families have said the plan could undermine the schools’ famed academics and discriminate against the mostly low-income Asian students who now make up most of the schools’ population. That’s why I knew that this year’s results would hold more weight than they had for a long time. We would find out how many black and Hispanic students got into the schools at the same moment that a debate about the future of the entrance exam was roiling New York. But I knew the numbers would also accelerate a debate that was much bigger than a few elite public schools: How can cities help solve the intractable, centuries-old problem of education inequality? I found out last week that Monday would be the day we would hear about specialized school admissions, and I’d heard that the numbers of black and Hispanic students were low.But when my editor, Dodai Stewart, and I saw the final tally around noon on Monday, our jaws dropped: only seven black students were accepted into Stuyvesant, out of 895 total offers. The city’s education department sends out a spreadsheet listing how many students of each race applied to the schools, and how many were accepted. It’s a simple set of data to crunch, but each statistic was important. I knew all the reporters at other news outlets also had this at the same time I did, and we were all racing against the clock.As we scrolled through the spreadsheet, we saw that Stuyvesant was not an outlier: The other top specialized schools had even lower numbers of black and Hispanic students than in previous years. These were the grimmest statistics about black and Hispanic enrollment in the schools that I’d ever seen.It felt like a watershed moment, one that would force people to pay attention to what has mostly been a local issue. We scrambled to get the article posted online at 4:30 p.m., the moment the data was released to the public. Within a few minutes of publication, we knew this was going to be an article that would resonate with readers. By the next day, the article was one of the most popular on the Times website and had nearly 1,500 comments. I was simultaneously struck by how outraged many of our readers were about the numbers — and how unlikely it was that the exam would be scrapped. I thought about if my article would be different next year on admissions day. Would I spend another March afternoon writing about dwindling numbers of black and Hispanic students in specialized schools? Or, for the first time in years, would the article be different?Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Eliza Shapiro is a reporter covering New York City education. She joined The Times in 2018. Eliza grew up in New York City and attended public and private schools in Manhattan and Brooklyn.  @elizashapiro AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPicture PromptsBy Natalie ProulxHow do you feel about March Madness? Are you going to fill out a bracket or join a pool this year?If so, which teams do you predict will be in the Final Four? Who will win? Will there be any major upsets this year? What matchups are you most looking forward to watching? Do you agree with any of the experts’ picks?Tell us in the comments, then read the related article to prepare for the tournament.Teachers: We also have a lesson plan, March Madness: Using Tournament Brackets to Debate Academic QuestionsFind many more ways to use our Picture Prompt feature in this lesson plan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Howard AxelrodCHICAGO — Last Thursday night, Loyola University Chicago tipped off against Nevada at 6:07 p.m. in the Sweet Sixteen of the N.C.A.A. tournament. The weekly two-and-a-half-hour poetry workshop I teach at Loyola was scheduled to start at 7.As I crossed campus, raucous cheers rose from the student center, hundreds of yards away. Lake Michigan crashed into the rocks behind the library, frothing like victory champagne. There was no one outside. Apart from a lone rabbit, nothing moved on the quad.Two of my students had emailed earlier in the day to say they’d be absent due to March Madness. Loyola hadn’t made the N.C.A.A. tournament in 33 years. I didn’t know if a single student would show for class.As I approached our building, the roar from the student center grew louder, as did the mixed feelings I’ve had about college sports. I’ve loved basketball since I was a boy and played varsity for my high school. Most of my friends in college were athletes, not poets.But over the last two decades, college sports have become big business. In 2016, the highest-paid state employee in 39 states was a college coach — not the governor, not the state university’s president. Each year, N.C.A.A. Division I athletic departments generate billions of dollars in revenue. To keep the money pouring into their programs, and into their own pockets, coaches have to win.The student-athletes at these big-time schools become in-house professional athletes, without the paychecks, but often with plenty of valuable perks. Their training, practice and game schedules leave little time for class, let alone studying. Many don’t get diplomas, which they’ll need because the majority of them won’t play pro.Loyola, of course, is not one of those big-money schools. Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the team’s chaplain, was the only person involved with the team whose name I knew before the tournament began. I’d never even seen a student wear a Loyola basketball shirt on campus. When the team upset the highly ranked Florida during the regular season, my excitement was met with genial indifference.The evidence that sports fit into life at Loyola was that they were largely invisible. After class each Thursday, I’d cut through the halls by Gentile Arena, past faded black-and-white photographs of earlier teams and inspirational quotations on the walls. A few student-athletes would be returning from the training room. Just another night for them, pursuing sports, as the N.C.A.A. Core Values state, as “an avocation.”But now the basketball team was in the Sweet Sixteen on national television. Barack Obama was tweeting about Sister Jean. However briefly, Loyola athletics had entered the big time, which didn’t bode well for academics. As I crossed the campus, I saw that the only classrooms with lights on had the game playing on large screens.Eleven of 14 students, all women, showed up for class (there is only one male student in our class). We talked about the Nick Flynn poems they’d been assigned. But cheering surged from down the hall as the second half began. At the students’ urging, we watched the rest of the game together on the large screen in the classroom. During the commercial breaks, I tried to think of a way to justify the decision pedagogically (the uses and abuses of alliteration: March Madness versus Elite Eight; or maybe, why sportscasters love clichés).But as we watched, that need felt less and less urgent. One student did mention the power of juxtaposition, how at the end of the previous game the coverage cut between a beaming Sister Jean and a bawling Tennessee fan. Another student, after the game concluded with Loyola beating Nevada, said, “We should write a poem — it felt like my heart was beating outside my chest!”But after a short break, we returned to the syllabus. To my amazement, the spirit of the game, the sense of all being on the same team, carried into our discussion of a student’s poem. Comments, which usually last for about 10 minutes, went on much longer. The poem, about a student missing her native Nigeria, drew encouraging consideration from her classmates.When class ended, I figured everyone would rush off, but no one seemed in a hurry. Camaraderie had entered the room. Three students approached me — one about a poetry fellowship, another about a poem about trampolines and the Nigerian student about a poem she was writing on womanhood.As she and I left the building, the campus thrummed with celebration, cheers rising from dorm rooms and passing cars. Another student from class, who lived on the South Side and had an hour-and a-half commute ahead of her, crossed the quad with us. She said the victory felt like the Cubs’ World Series victory in miniature.We walked slowly, absorbing the night, its unlikely rhyme of poetry and basketball. I asked the student from the South Side about her commute, what route she took. The Nigerian student asked her what she did with the travel time. They talked about reading on train rides, and about the desire to observe others without being seen. They talked about making a T-shirt that said, “I’m a writer — please don’t mind if I watch you.”The basketball game had come and gone, but its energy was still carrying them.This Saturday, during the Final Four, I’ll be rooting for Loyola — for the team to win, and, more deeply, for the balanced role of sports at the university not to change. For both to happen, it’ll take a miracle.Howard Axelrod is a lecturer in creative writing at Loyola University Chicago and the author of “The Point of Vanishing: A Memoir of Two Years in Solitude.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Two months after four U.S. soldiers were killed in Niger, a group of Green Berets and local forces killed 11 Islamic State militants in a previously undisclosed battle.No American or Nigerien forces were harmed in the fight in December. But it indicates that the deadly Oct. 4 ambush was not an isolated episode in the West African nation, where the U.S. is building a major drone base.• Wednesday’s news follows the revelation last week that the U.S. carried out four airstrikes in Libya between September and January that Africa Command failed to disclose at the time.• A razor-thin victory in a special House election in Pennsylvania has given Democrats hope for this fall’s elections in districts that voted heavily for Donald Trump.The winner, Conor Lamb, presented himself as independent-minded, vowing early that he would not support Nancy Pelosi to lead the House Democrats. His approach could become a template for moderate Democrats seeking seats in conservative-leaning areas.• Speaking to voters, our reporter learned that, while anti-Trump motivation is abundant, candidates still matter in close races.• Thousands of students walked out of schools across the U.S. on Wednesday as part of a coordinated protest calling for gun control.The walkouts generally lasted for 17 minutes, one for every victim in last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla. Here are photos from around the country.• Although the protests commanded attention on TV and social media, it was clear that many students did not participate, especially in rural and conservative areas where gun control is not popular.• Britain wants the support of its allies in taking action against Moscow after a nerve-agent attack against a former spy.But Prime Minister Theresa May — who expelled 23 Russian diplomats on Wednesday — leads a country whose position in the world has weakened, and it’s uncertain how much help she’ll get.She does have the backing of Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N., who called the poisoning “an atrocious crime” during an emergency session of the Security Council.• As part of Britain’s retaliatory measures, no ministers or royals will attend the World Cup in Russia this summer.• The remote Pacific island is critically vulnerable to rising sea levels.Two Times journalists traveled 2,200 miles off the coast of Chile to see how the ocean is erasing famous ancient monuments.• Archaeologists fear losing clues to one of the island’s great mysteries: What caused the collapse of the civilization that built the statues?• The Senate, in a rare show of bipartisanship, voted to ease some rules imposed after the 2008 financial crisis.But Republicans in the House are expected to push for a much more expansive rollback of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.• From cable to the White House: Larry Kudlow, a CNBC television pundit, will become President Trump’s top economic adviser, replacing Gary Cohn.• Elizabeth Holmes, once a favorite of Silicon Valley, has been charged with fraud. She had captivated investors and the public with her company, Theranos, which promised that a simple blood test could detect a range of illnesses, from diabetes to cancer.• There will be no more Toys “R” Us kids. The retail chain is closing its U.S. stores.• U.S. stocks were down on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Protect a laptop after it’s been stolen.• For heart disease patients, think exercise, not weight loss.• Recipe of the day: Chicken and rice is a glorious one-pot weeknight meal.• Stephen Hawking taught us how to live“Whether or not he overturned the universe, he did overturn our imaginations.” One of our science reporters appraised the extraordinary life of the English cosmologist, who died on Wednesday.Here’s a brief history of Dr. Hawking’s work, six cultural moments he inspired and some of his most memorable quotations.• Cyberattack with a deadly goalIn August, the hacking of a petrochemical company with a plant in Saudi Arabia was intended not just to destroy data or force a shutdown, investigators say.It was also meant to sabotage the firm’s operations and cause an explosion.• Is your bracket ready? The N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament begins today.We looked at the best and worst on the court, the myths of March Madness and the 98-year-old nun who is in the huddle with Loyola University-Chicago.• Mayor watched a dance recital. Now he’s the ex-mayor.The mayor of Tehran resigned after attending a celebration where six girls danced and threw rose petals in honor of a female saint.Women are not allowed to dance in public in Iran — and girls older than 9 are regarded as women by clerics.• Best of late-night TVSamantha Bee reveled in Conor Lamb’s victory in Pennsylvania: “You know, I’m really enjoying this radical new Democratic strategy called ‘trying.’ ”• Quotation of the day“We have grown up watching more tragedies occur and continuously asking: Why? Why does this keep happening?”— Kaylee Tyner, a 16-year-old who joined a gun-violence walkout at Columbine High School in Colorado, where 13 people were killed in 1999.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.“The Godfather,” which opened in New York on this day in 1972, was “one of the most brutal and moving chronicles of American life ever designed within the limits of popular entertainment,” the Times film critic Vincent Canby wrote.The adaptation of Mario Puzo’s best-selling 1969 novel was directed by a young Francis Ford Coppola. He was selected after numerous other directors turned down the job, and in part for his Italian heritage.The saga of the Corleones, an organized crime family in New York in the 1940s and ’50s, “The Godfather” became an almost-instant classic. It was the top-earning film of 1972 and remains one of the highest-grossing (and most critically acclaimed) movies of all time.Nominated for 10 Academy Awards in 1973, “The Godfather” won three, including best picture and best actor for Marlon Brando, who played Vito Corleone, the family’s aging patriarch. Brando famously declined to accept the award as a protest of Hollywood’s portrayal of Native Americans.“The Godfather” was “a superb Hollywood movie,” Canby wrote in 1972, “scaring the delighted hell out of us while cautioning that crime doesn’t (or, at least, shouldn’t) pay.”_____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew R. ChowMarch Madness begins with games all afternoon and evening. And watch season finales with RuPaul and Annalise Keating.HOW TO GET AWAY WITH MURDER 10 p.m. on ABC. The penultimate episode of Season 4 ended with an excruciating cliffhanger — a car accident involving a main character. In the finale, Annalise (Viola Davis) and her inner circle deal with the aftermath of a suspicious death that culminates with a shocking arrest.N.C.A.A. MEN’S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT You better have those brackets filled out, because the first large batch of March Madness games arrives on Thursday. Oklahoma has sputtered as of late, but anything is possible with the freshman phenom Trae Young’s sharpshooting prowess from all over the floor; his team plays Rhode Island at 12:15 p.m. on CBS. An intriguing No. 8- and No. 9-seeded matchup pits Alabama, with the ferocious point guard Collin Sexton, against Virginia Tech at 9:15 p.m. on TNT. And Deandre Ayton, a potential top N.B.A. prospect, hopes to dominate Buffalo at 9:40 p.m. on CBS.FURIOUS 7 (2015) 7 p.m. on FX or on Netflix. The seventh installment of the unassailable “Fast & Furious” franchise serves as both a brisk action flick and a touching tribute to Paul Walker, in his last role filmed before his death. Before the cast members say their farewells in the final moments, cars are driven out of airplanes, come-ons are exchanged and Dwayne Johnson brawls with Jason Statham. “‘Furious 7’ is an early favorite to win the prize for most picture,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review in The New York Times. And look for footage of Gal Gadot, two years before she would become a superstar in her own right with “Wonder Woman” — which in on HBO2 at 9:45 p.m.RUPAUL’S DRAG RACE ALL STARS 8 p.m. on VH1. This season of “Drag Race” has featured plenty of surprises, from voluntary self-eliminations to an inexplicable Nancy Pelosi cameo. This week, the season closes with one of the four remaining queens going home with $100,000. To do so, they’ll have to write and perform a new section of a RuPaul song and choreograph a dance with Todrick Hall; the eliminated contestants will return to form some sort of jury.THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING (2014) on Amazon and YouTube. Celebrate the life of Stephen Hawking through this tender biopic, for which Eddie Redmayne won an Oscar for his portrayal of the physicist. The movie begins at the University of Cambridge, where he runs around campus with his friends and meets his future wife, Jane Wilde (Felicity Jones); his muscles begin to fail him just as his career takes off. His scientific breakthroughs, including discoveries about black holes, are documented, as are his struggles with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and family life. “At times I thought he was me,” Mr. Hawking wrote about Mr. Redmayne’s performance.AdvertisementAdvertisement

      Compiled by MICHAEL GONCHAR

MARCH 20, 2018

Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows?How well did you follow the news this past week? How many of these 10 questions can you get right?Thousands of students  across the U.S. on March 14 as part of a coordinated protest calling for gun control.  The protests generally lasted for 17 minutes, one for every victim in last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla.held sit-insskipped schoolwalked out of schoolswrote letters to their elected representativesPresident Trump on March 13 ousted his , Rex W. Tillerson, extending a shake-up of his administration, 14 months into his tumultuous presidency, and potentially transforming the nation’s economic and foreign policy.chief of staffsecretary of defensesecretary of stateWhite House counsel A  in Miami collapsed on March 15, crushing cars and killing at least six people.balconylarge construction cranepedestrian bridgeradio towerMarch Madness saw the ultimate upset. A No. 16 seed — the Retrievers of  — beat the top-seeded Virginia Cavaliers, 74-54, on March 16.Creighton UniversityKennesaw State Universitythe North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State Universitythe University of Maryland, Baltimore CountyPrime Minister Theresa May of Britain  on March 14 over the poisoning of a former Russian spy on British soil, raising tensions between the two countries to a level not seen since the heights of the Cold War. She vowed to crack down on Russian spies, corrupt elites and ill-gotten wealth in Britain.called for a popular boycott of all Russian productscanceled a planned summit with Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president,expelled 23 Russian diplomatsraised the national terror threat level Conor Lamb, a Democrat and former Marine, scored a razor-thin but extraordinary upset in a special House election in southwestern , after a few thousand absentee ballots cemented a Democratic victory in the heart of President Trump’s Rust Belt base.MichiganOhioPennsylvaniaWisconsin, the iconic retail chain that has sold toys and games to millions of children for generations, is closing shop in the United States.F.A.O. SchwarzK.B. ToysTops 'N' ToysToys “R” UsA firm tied to the Trump campaign used private information — including contacts and “likes” — harvested from the  profiles of more than 50 million users without their permission.FacebookInstagramSnapchatTwitterStephen Hawking, the Cambridge University  who pondered the origin of the universe from a wheelchair, died on March 14 at his home in England. He was 76.philosopherphysicistpoliticianprovostThree of the articles below about Trump administration expenditures were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?Ben Carson’s HUD Spends $31,000 on Dining Set for His OfficeE.P.A. Chief Pruitt Postpones Trip to Israel Amid Scrutiny of High-Priced TravelReport Faults V.A. Secretary Shulkin Over Travel to EuropeRick Perry Apologizes for Trying to Outdo Fellow Cabinet Members by Using $72 Million of Taxpayer Funds on LampshadeAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach Johnk and Merrill D. Oliver(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The stock market tumbled.The cause: tit-for-tat tariffs imposed by China on Monday, and tech’s dark hour of the soul.Facebook is trying to contain the loss of about $100 billion in value. Amazon is under presidential attack.And Tesla shares fell amid concerns about the electric car maker’s quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, the chief executive, joked for April Fool’s that the company had gone “completely and totally bankrupt.”_____2. “DACA is dead.”Thus tweeted President Trump, venting about the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and blaming Democrats for failing to salvage it. But if history is a guide, his position on shielding young, undocumented immigrants may remain a moving target.The Trump administration also moved to weaken Obama-era car pollution standards. And the Environmental Protection Agency said it was re-examining a federal waiver that has allowed California and 12 other states to follow more stringent air pollution rules.Last month, when Mr. Trump called Vladimir Putin, he suggested that the Russian leader visit the White House, according to a Kremlin official.As Robert Mueller’s Russia inquiry intensifies, many have wondered: If he were fired, what are the chances the president would be impeached?_____3. Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma, above, and Kentucky walked off the job, shutting down school districts in protest of cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts add to a wave of strikes in red states that began in West Virginia.Mainly organized on Facebook by teachers fed up with years of funding cuts, the protests have caught lawmakers and sometimes the educators’ own unions flat-footed._____4. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader of the bloody struggle against South Africa’s white rulers under apartheid, has died at 81.“Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent,” our obituary says, Ms. Mandela saw her heroic status “eroded by scandal over corruption, kidnapping, murder and the adulterous implosion of her fabled marriage to Nelson Mandela.”She came to resent her husband’s global celebrity. “I am not Mandela’s product,” she once said. “I am the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy.”_____5. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the country’s north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The group’s fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____6. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness, we devised a bracket-style tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. Above, Sydney University.We won’t spoil the results, but here’s one (unsurprising) conclusion from our panelists: The best student loan repayment system — which would be based on students’ incomes and be able to collect automatically through the tax system — is a far cry from what’s in place in the United States.The real March Madness ends tonight with the men’s title game between Villanova and Michigan at 9:20 p.m. Eastern. Follow our live updates._____7. No sweatpants in public, an “ideal weight,” instructions on tampon use: These are just some of the extensive controls that N.F.L. teams place on their cheerleaders, according to seven team handbooks that our reporter reviewed. Above, Carolina Panthers cheerleaders.And the philanthropic world is feeling the effects of the #MeToo movement. A number of organizations have lost donors or relinquished gifts because of their ties to powerful men accused of sexual misconduct.One celebrity chef felled by #MeToo is plotting a comeback: Mario Batali. He retreated to near invisibility after reports of abusive behavior in his empire and at restaurants owned by friends, but is said to be exploring ways to jump back into his career._____8. The videos on social media were alarming, showing dozens of local news anchors eerily echoing the same warnings about “biased and false news” and journalists who “push their own personal bias.”These scripted speeches were recited to millions of viewers across the country last month at the behest of Sinclair Broadcast Group, the country’s largest broadcaster. The company has been criticized for advancing a right-leaning agenda and renewed a debate over media ownership.The “must-reads” went a step beyond the “must-run” video segments Sinclair regularly sends stations, which have included terrorism news updates or commentators speaking in support of President Trump. (He came to Sinclair’s defense on Monday.)_____9. “Fear is the factor no one wants to address,” a lifelong gun owner writes in The Times Magazine, wrestling with the changes to gun laws that he says must come.There’s no simple solution, he writes, to the fear of “criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the government’s turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another.”_____10. Finally, what better way to commemorate Easter than a showing of “Jesus Christ Superstar”?That was NBC’s thinking behind a live telecast starring John Legend as Jesus Christ and Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene, above. Our reviewer’s takeaway: “From the multicultural cast to its deconstruction of religious iconography, this ‘Jesus Christ Superstar’ was as thoughtful and challenging as the show has ever been.”And with Passover in swing, read this Op-Ed essay by David Wolpe from Spain. While the country is a land of Jewish ghosts, he writes, “there will be Seders for those who seek one.”Have a great evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardCollege basketball has long made much of its money by sleazy recruitment and exploitation of teenage stars. With a series of federal bribery and fraud  charges announced this week, prosecutors are now treating these shady dealings as what they are: corruption, not a rules violation.Coaches, the very people whom prized young athletes should be able to trust, were found to be profiting from them and helping others — agents, financial advisers, the Adidas shoe company — profit, too.“For these men, bribing coaches was a business investment,” declared Joon Kim, acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, in disclosing a continuing investigation into academia and sports entertainment. The criminal complaints were rare in an area too often relegated to self-policing by universities and the N.C.A.A. — the watchdog of college sports and the umbrella organization that runs the popular, immensely profitable basketball championship tournament dubbed March Madness, where college stars compete before some of them go on to professional careers as millionaires.At one college, an Adidas representative promised a player’s family $100,000 for committing to a school and an endorsement, the charges said. At another, an associate head coach allegedly took nearly $100,000 to steer players to financial advisers eager to invest and share in their future salaries. At a third, a coaching assistant is said to have sought bribes from people seeking access to his players.The dimension of the scandal was clear when the University of Louisville ousted its coach, Rick Pitino, on Wednesday. One complaint, while not actually naming Louisville or Mr. Pitino, implied that someone in the basketball program directed money from Adidas to two high school prospects. The university signed a 10-year, $160 million contract this summer with Adidas for the men’s basketball program.Mr. Pitino, who was not charged, warned in 2014 about shoe companies’ power as brokers between coaches and stars. “I think we need to get the shoe companies out of the lives of young athletes,” he said. But the coach, the nation’s highest paid, at $7.7 million a year, has a reputation for cutting ethical corners. He was suspended and his program were put on N.C.A.A. probation in June after investigators found prostitutes were provided for players and teenage recruits.Other N.C.A.A. practices are in need of reform, like the “one-and-done” phenomenon, in which high school stars play at universities for just a year before moving on to professional careers. This situation arose after the National Basketball Association and its players’ union agreed to bar players before they have turned 19 or until a year after high school graduation. Previously, high school players could sign on and earn full professional salaries — safe from the no-income college rules and fictions that invite the sort of abuses laid bare in the complaints.College basketball programs unscrupulously compete for top players to earn more from the immense pot of profit from television. The complaints cast a spotlight on that greed and hypocrisy, which is infesting what is supposed to be, but hasn’t been for some time, an innocent and amateur sport.An editorial on Thursday about a scandal involving college basketball referred incorrectly to the University of Louisville coach, Rick Pitino. Mr. Pitino has not been “a master” of the one-and-done, in which high school stars play at universities for just a year before moving on to professional careers.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkThis week we enjoyed reading comments from hundreds of students across the United States — from New York and Florida to California and Ohio. We’d like to acknowledge longtime participants from YC CLIP, Locust Grove High School in Locust Grove, Ga., and Hoggard High School in Wilmington, N.C., for weighing in strongly this week.And, we want to give a special shout out to Tucker G. Oakley from Wilmington, N.C., who consistently writes entertaining and heartfelt short stories and poems on our Picture Prompts. We look forward to reading them each week!As always, thank you for offering your insightful opinions, sharing your personal experiences and composing creative stories on our many writing prompts. Keep up the great work, everyone!Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted._________In light of recent events, it was no surprise to us that “Do You Think It Is Important for Teenagers to Participate in Political Activism?” was the most popular writing prompt this week. We received excellent comments from students all over the country who organized and participated in the national student walkouts on March 14, as well as those who chose to opt out. Here are their thoughts on the protest and teenagers’ roles in politics:Kate Silver from Wilmington, N.C., shared her experience:On Wednesday March 14th, thousands participated in Nationwide walkouts to protest gun violence and honor the 17 lives lost in the Parkland shooting. Among the participating schools was mine, Hoggard High School. At 10 am when the protests began, hundreds of students marched to the forum with their voices ready to be heard. I came prepared with my “Arms are for Hugging” t-shirt and “No more silence, end gun violence” written on my poster. 17 students were standing on a wooden bench and came forward one by one, passionately representing each of the 17 victims.The experience was amazing. I felt as though anything was possible and that we could make a difference. Seeing so many students vying for change made me proud of my generation. I felt like my father, who years earlier, marched on Washington to protest the Vietnam War. As a teenager, adults look down on us. They see us as hormonal children that only care about themselves. But during the walkout, we showed them that we will not stay silent and afterwards, they were looking up to us.Sydney Durner from Wilmington, N.C., also participated in the walkout, though for a different reason:Teenagers are usually looked down upon in politics, like our opinion doesn’t matter, we don’t know enough about politics to have a say. It’s important for teenagers to be able to speak out for what they believe in. This enforce good political habits, speaking your mind, standing up for what you believe in, participating in voting, etc.I participated in the walkout on Wednesday, March 14th. I don’t necessarily agree with what my school was preaching about. I went to honor the victims. The walkout turned into a ban guns rally. Guns aren’t the problem, it’s the ones behind the trigger that are the problem. In the article “National School Walkout: Thousands Protest Against Gun Violence Across the U.S.,” they mention a 16 year-old who stayed in class during the protest, saying that banning guns isn’t the issue and that the real issue is the people doing it.” That was his way of participating in political activism. He stayed because it’s what he believed in.Teenagers should participate in political activism. It feels good to be a part of something bigger than you could imagine and trying to make a change in the world. In the article “Why Demonstrating is Good for Kids,” it mentions a study in the journal Child Development, teens and young adults who voted, volunteered, or engaged in activism went farther in school and had higher incomes than those who didn’t advocate for change. It is so important that we develop our voices at a young age. It only helps us in the long run.Leah Schwagerl from Wilmington, N.C., was proud of her classmates:Personally, I am proud of all of the adolescents that participated in the walkouts for gun violence or for memorializing the 17 victims of the Parkland shooting. Even if our efforts to promote change are denied by legislation, at least we were able to experience the unity that comes with standing up for what we believe in. I hope that the nation wide walkout sparked adults to see teenagers in a more respectable way. After all, just a week before the walkout I saw an upsetting post on social media that stated something along the lines of “How am I supposed to listen to teenagers talk about gun laws when earlier this year they were eating tide pods?”To conclude, I can say with pride that after my positive experience from the national school walkout, I plan on being a lot more politically active in the years to come. Political activism allows teenagers, adults, and people in general to align their beliefs and engage in the world.Collin from Lawrence was less impressed with his school’s demonstration:I feel like at my school, Walkout was the wrong term. At my school there was a rally. Disappointed. That was my reaction.Disappointed because instead of being a respectful memorial. It was a political charged anti gun rally.Now, there is nothing wrong with expressing your own political beliefs but school is not the place to hold a political protest. I was under the impression there was going to be 17 minutes of silence but what I got was quite the opposite. People with megaphones, yelling and screaming, chanting. It was far from a memorial. Do I think young people should protest? Yes go right ahead but school is not the place. A large portion of people who went to the “rally” didn’t even know why they were there. Conflicted Ideas about guns swarmed around the place. “Ban all guns!” “Ban Assault Rifles” Some people didn’t even know what they stood for. The worse thing about it is, The school can practicality host an anti gun rally, but if a student walks into class wearing a shirt or a hat that portrays their conservative beliefs or lifestyle, they are asked to take it off. It reminds me of a court case we learned about in Civics. Tinker vs Des Moines. This court case ruled that students have the right to protest as long as they don’t disrupt the learning environment. Although the verdict stands true to this day, I don’t see the law being enforced in America’s High Schools.Kalpana from New York, N.Y., was also confused about the message protesters were sending, but remained hopeful:I’m not sure about the message my school was trying to send. I know that the students and teachers believe gun violence is bad, and I do too, but it confuses me why we were not doing 17 minutes of silence. I wish we had. I thought the walkout was supposed to be for students in Parkland, Florida, and we would be supporting them by walking out and doing 17 minutes of silence and reading their names. Instead, we did 20 minutes of shouting and rallying for gun control. The message we were sending out was not “Parkland we sympathize with you” but “NRA, we’re going to take you down!”I do hope, still, that our rallies help convince Trump to make some gun control laws so there will be fewer incidents involving guns.Though some students doubted the effectiveness of the walkouts, Sydney G. from New York thought they had the potential to make a difference:I think that it was very important that us children, the future of our world went out and stood up for something that we believe in. It is very significant that as individuals at this age that we use our voices, because our opinions are very powerful and influential. I believe that we did make a difference just by going out among millions of others to support the people who have suffered and are still suffering and stand up for what we believe in. When I see photos of the other young adults going out and protesting, I feel proud that there is a group of people who are not afraid to share their true feelings to the nation and that there are people who are willing to protect and support each other no matter how frightening it is.As did Cam from Maine, who hoped young people’s voices wouldn’t be silenced by adults:I think that it is more important than ever for teens to participate in political debates and issues. Sadly, we are the generation that has grown up with mass shootings being a norm, and it needs to stop. I think that students taking a stand will make a difference because we are also the next generation of voters.My school had a snow day on the day of the national walkout so we weren’t able to participate, but from what I saw it got plenty of news coverage and attention, which will help with raising awareness even more.Personally, I also believe that teachers and administrators should allow students to have open, honest conversations about what they believe in without punishment. I also think that is wrong to not allow students to walkout and threaten them for standing up for what they believe in.But Derek Han from San Jose, Calif., thought there were better ways for students to voice their concerns:Many problems are being noticed around the country nowadays such as school shootings, and students may want to protest. Recently, there was a peaceful protest on March 14, where students across the nation walked outside of their classrooms in order to spread awareness about the issue of gun violence in schools. As a student, I didn’t take part in the protest as I believed that walking outside of my classroom for 17 minutes was not the best way to spread awareness about the issue and was not the most efficient way to address nationwide problems. I believe that the idea of teenagers trying to spread their opinions on problems is great, but I just think that there are better ways of accomplishing their goal. Spending class time in order to give respect to the murdered students may not have been the best idea. Letting others know about issues through social media and the internet is a great way to spread awareness and still save class time for learning. While the intentions of protesting students or teenagers may be good, I think that some teenagers may be more prone to act on their emotions, and I feel that teenagers may cause something similar to a riot if their opinions are not agreed upon, or if their actions are not recognized.Many students were passionate about teenagers’ involvement in politics, like Hugo Veliz from Providence, R.I., who wrote:Personally, if the teenagers are being active in political issues, we see different aspects and different views on problems being discussed today. Also, what would happen if the issues being discussed today are about the teenagers and the youth? How could they not be apart of that discussion if they are the discussion. For example, the tragic shootout that recently happened in Florida. Would those in danger be silent and not say what is on their mind? It would be unjust. The teenagers of today will be those making those influential decisions of tomorrow. Being quiet will not only danger today, it will also danger the future.Nelly3D from YC CLIP agreed:These days is very important to raise our voices to get changes. I think is important to teach the teenager to participate in political activism because some teenagers do not how good or bad is to fight to get some positive change. Nowadays, some of our teenagers do not know how to choose good decisions, because some parents do not allow that their children grow independently, this makes us create children unable to make their own decisions. Some of them are influence negatively of bad persons. However, some teenager are more mature than an adult. I think that we have to allow the teenagers participate in different way like political activism in this way in this way they get involved in positive things so that they grow up to be wise people with a lot of knowledge and they can take advantage of it in the future. If we want to see in the future good resolve for this country, we as parents have to educate our children. They are our future.Robert Yates from Wilmington, N.C., argued that civic participation is one of the most important things citizens — young and old — can do for their country:I believe that the willingness of teenagers to take a stand against the government is the most important factor in regards to the reversal of the socioeconomic damage previous generations have dealt to our country and planet. I participated in the walkout last week at my high school along with hundreds of others. Many people, though, opted out of the protest to sit in class and do nothing for seventeen minutes. These people have their reasons, the vast majority of which I disagree with, however the one excuse I heard from a few people that frustrated me the most was that they didn’t “waste their time” because “one person won’t make a difference”. This mindset is the antithesis of meaningful change, which is also shared by people such as those that abstain from exercising their right as an American citizen to vote. As the study referenced in the first article stated, both voting and participating in political activism have a high correlation with going far in school and higher incomes, most likely because proactivity lends itself to success more so than complacency. As far as school staff are concerned, I believe they should remain neutral on the topic and allow students to make their own decisions. I felt pressured to not participate last week because my teacher was clearly biased against the protesters. When school staff share their opinion, it can scare students into doing the opposite of what they believe in, which isn’t a good way to acclimate students to taking a stand._________Students responded to our Student Opinion question “What Is Your Favorite Type of Art?” with the art and museum exhibits that have moved them most.Brianna Browning from Wilmington, N.C., enjoys painting:As a painter I enjoy the instant gratification of the colours. However my favorite type of art is underwater “landscaping”; fish tank decorating. No this doesn’t mean Sponge Bob ornaments, but rather live plants and rocks. I currently have a 75 gal aquarium in which I am turning into a self sustainable tank. I currently have moss and anarchis as a foundation for the root mat. In this aquarium I have three freshwater angelfish, two bala sharks, and one chinese algae eater. This will be a hard project as both the angelfish and bala sharks eat live foods. Making this a difficult and demanding type of art as well. The instant gratification is still here, but you also get the rewards of delayed gratification. You also will watch the plants grow and take shape making this a very natural serene piece of art.Grant Holland from Wilmington, N.C., prefers art that has a purpose:I tend to favor artwork that shows meaning. Anyone can just paint, sculpt or take a picture of something, but what is hard is to show the audience your view and meaning through the art. I usually do not attend art museums, but instead I read the National Geographic magazine or watch the Discovery channel which contains videos and photography that is breathtaking. Discovery and National Geographic do not just run around taking pictures of anything. They take pictures of things that show meaning, like understanding the harsh life of someone who lives in Cuba which shows the reader the importance of freedom. Or watching an animal rescue program release an animal back into the wild that has recovered from injury which shows that humans can make a change on animal life. Art needs to have a meaning, to make a successful piece of artwork, give it life.Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., also favors art with cultural significance:I like art that evolves and follows the times that we are living in. Graffiti art is one of my favorites, along with political art and graphic designs. Art is no longer just a painting of fruit, it is one of the most valuable tools used to express ideas. Something that conveys a reaction out of the viewer, that is provocative and eye opening is art in it’s most pure of form.Sarah Dill from Maine appreciates the variety of interpretations different media invite:I like to experience art because it kind of gives you a different perspective. There are so many different forms of art that you could have one topic and there could be so many different perspectives on it. I also like it because it’s cool to look at and you can interpret the meaning of the piece and what the artist was going for. Shaunna Dancause from Massachusetts uses technology to get a museum experience at home:With the internet making what seems to be everything so readily available, art can be viewed without needing to look at a book or go to a museum. For instance, I spend lots of time looking at art on Instagram. It is especially exciting because you can discover young and underappreciated artists that you wouldn’t have the joy of knowing about otherwise. That being said, it is a very different experience compared to visiting a museum. Being able to see art up close and personal is the best way to view it. My favorite type of art is definitely illustration because it almost always breaks the norms of realism. Even at seventeen, I enjoy looking at children’s picture books for the illustrations. It doesn’t matter whichever method you are using to look at the art, all that matters is that you’re able to appreciate it.John Burgee from Wilmington, N.C., thinks our world would be boring without the gift of art:My favorite piece of art was Kehinde Wiley’s “Margaret, Countess of Blessington.” I liked this painting for it’s uniqueness and realism which I find to be important in a successful work of art. Although I’ve only been to an art museum once or twice I can consider myself a good drawer and I can recognize a good drawing/painting when I see one._________For our “Extreme Times, Extreme Clothes” Picture Prompt, we asked what you think fashion says about culture — if anything at all.Emma Claire Lisk from Wilmington, N.C., thinks that, as with all art forms, fashion can make a statement about the world we live in:My friends and I participated in a local fashion contest where the entire outfit was produced from books. But, one of my friend’s creations truly showed the mindset of a fashion designer. Towards her waist, one side had black spikes and the other had a soft feathered curve. She used these additions to display the tensions between people in society.Current events have affected fashion since the 20th century. It has been shown through Martin Margiela in the ‘80s, the time of the infamous stock market crash called Black Monday, by pushing his designs to be “purposefully made to look poor — because the world suddenly was.”Olivia Rotondo from Philadelphia sees fashion more as a personal choice:Fashion is a way that people express themselves. People use outfits to represent who they are. I think that what people personally chose to wear does not reflect what is happening in the world. Some people would rather wear sweats and some people would rather wear jeans, it is just a preference between people.Andrew Derushia from Wilmington, N.C., noted that clothes have helped propel significant cultural shifts throughout history:Times change fast nowadays. We were one thing and it out of style in two weeks. I feel this fast paced world is a result of how we change as humans in our many ever-evolving ways. Clothes have always represented something for it’s wearers. In the late 1700’s the rich would envelope themselves in rare animals skins and elaborate colorful dyed fabrics. All this superfluous clothing would depict the wealth of these people. Today the wealth in clothing is still seen but not nearly as much. We see less of a gap because clothes are more attainable for those “ballin on a budget”.Clothes today also have swayed away from belonging to one gender allowing this cross over to show how society’s acceptance has grown for those who don’t want to follow their gender stereotypes allow them to explore brighter colors, fun cuts, and patterns of clothes originally designated for a sole purpose. The closing gaps between men and women, rich and wealth, and black and white has allowed our communities to grow more unified while still allowing one to express themselves. Fashion overall has helped express the need for dismembering concepts that have configured a larger divide between different groups and allowed us to be seen as more equals with a nice pop of color to show everyone who we truly are._________Students wrote their own short stories and poems inspired by the Picture Prompt “Tape.”Morgan from North Carolina created a back story for the image:The children knew they needed to help their cat. The cat’s tail had been cut when she was after a red bird. The bird had decided to fight back this time. The children figured they should tape the cat’s tail, but literally got too wrapped up in their work to accomplish much the first time. They finally managed to do the job and were almost able to get away with it.Mandi from North Carolina began her story this way:Leah, Cassie, and George were sitting on their couch, bored, not being able to do anything because the storm had caused the power to go out, making the tv go out and their phones and laptops dead. Their mother was stuck in traffic where a car had crashed from going too fast on the road.“I’m bored, what should we do?” George asked, laying on the floor looking up at the ceiling.After a few minutes of silence, Cassie, the middle child, jumped up. “What if we played with Ms. Lake’s cats, there is one outside!”“Yeah,” Leah, the oldest child answered. “we’d be doing the cat a favor and getting her out of the rain anyway.”After getting the cat out of the rain, which George was left to do the job, losing a rock paper scissors fight. Cassie ran out of the bathroom with some bandages. “Let’s make a cat mummy!” she yelled, a beaming smile on her face.The siblings soon had the bandages everywhere, more on themselves than the cat. They heard the door open. “What are you guys doing? Why is there a cat?” Their mother was shocked.“We were bored, and the cat was outside, so we brought her in and tried to make her into a mummy.” George replied.“if you were bored you could’ve played board games! I told you this over the phone!”“Oh yeah.” the children said, looking at their feet.Tucker G. Oakley from Wilmington, N.C., interpreted the tape as a metaphor in his poem:Life is a constant feeling of suffering.You are beaten and bruised by all variables.Yet, we survive with every scab to show.By hand of another or the will of Earth.By choice or not, we stride.So show me some bandages,Your endless tape wrapped aroundEvery drop of blood and wound thatPaves your pathway.Give me some proof that you are alive,Even seven feet under, show me the tape.Show me the band aids you gave toThose precious to you, so they know.Oh!Let them know that this worldIs a battle that you survivedAnd give them the sight throughTheir unknown.Now go tell them,Never hide your tape._________Our Picture Prompt "A Wrinkle in Time" brought the following responses:Sean from Sacramento imagined this:It would have been amazing if Oprah had included herself in her list of Earth’s best “warriors.”Hayley DeArmond said more could be done to make the film enjoyable:There are a lot of problems with making film adaptations of popular books. Directors and writers are largely limited by things such as in the case as A Wrinkle in Time not including the book’s scientific theories. Since the story already has been heard, filmmakers are pressured to make it stay as true to the source material as possible, but that is what it is: source material. Ava DuVernay tries to add an artist touch with the casting, but I do not think it does enough to make the film enjoyable. To those who read the book, parts are missing; but the efforts to make the film like the book also made it confusing and not answer a lot of questions to those who did not read the book. An important thing to think about is the movie I, Robot is based on a series of short stories, and The Minority Report was based on short story. Many people do not realize how little of a book you can fit in a movie, but short stories give that message, characters, and setting to make something good. Speaking of The Minority Report it was directed by Steven Spielberg, not just one of the best directors, but directors of film adaptations. War Horse, Catch Me If You Can, The Color Purple, Jurassic Park, Schindler’s List, Jaws, the list keeps going; the most notable thing is Spielberg finds the importance of the story and expresses it his own way in film, he is not debating which chapters to include or characters to cut, he is creating a film_________Here is what two students said for our Picture Prompt “March Madness”:Rex Hardy from Wilmington, N.C., is a regular bracket participant:I’ve done the March Madness Bracket Challenge with friends over the past couple of years and it never turns out the way I’ve predicted it. This year in particular, I had Virginia in the Final Four and North Carolina winning the whole shebang. After this past weekend, my bracket was destroyed by teams I’ve never heard of, terrible blowouts, and crazy buzzer beaters. It’s March Madness for a reason; which, is one thing I fail to understand year after year. I always predict the higher ranked team winning the majority of the games with only one or two upsets, yet I’m always proven wrong. The Cinderella story always finds a way to mess up what I had planned. This year is definitely up for grabs. Deep inside, I agree with Josh Nagel in that Duke has the best team and is the biggest threat to win it all; yet, I could definitely be wrong. If this year has proved anything to me it is that anybody can be beat on any given day. Virginia, being the favor to win it all by experts and millions of others, were quickly eliminated by a county team. This being said, I believe Texas A&M could win it all with their lineup of two 6’10” forwards, but they might not. The championship is up for grabs and the better team day in and day out is going to win. At this point, the world is wondering, who will it be?Olivia Rotondo from Philadelphia follows the game closely:This 2018 NCAA March Madness has been full of amazing wins and disappointing upsets. As many people pick Virginia or UNC to win it all, most brackets are now busted. I do not follow basketball closely, I know as much as the common person. So, my bracket was not going to get far anyways. I have a place in my heart for Nova. I can’t wait to see who will win this year!_________For the Student Opinion prompt “What Idea Do You Have That Is Ahead of Its Time?”, a few students recalled famous contemporary innovators.SadiaD4 from YC CLIP named Stephen Hawking as a forward-thinking innovator:The well-known scientist Stephen William Hawking, he was an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist and author and he is well known for his future prediction. One of his recent predictions about earth is, ‘Earth will glow red and become as hot as Venus. In July 2017, he told BBC that humanity is at a “tipping point” where global warming would become so bad that Earth become like Venus, with a temperature of 250 degrees Celsius, and raining sulfuric acid’. However, some people think that prediction is not going to happen. They think Venus is so close to the Sun but Earth is not that much close. Furthermore, for the increasing of global warming it could happen in the future.Liubov4D from YC CLIP mentioned Elon Musk:A name of the one person, who could be rightfully named as a person ahead of the present time, comes to my mind. This person’s name is Elon Musk. Inspired by Isaac Asimov’s “Foundation” he tries “to prolong civilization, minimize the probability of a dark age and reduce the length of a dark age if there is one.” The same way as sailors roamed the seas, discovering new continents, Musk plans to expand into the space and colonize Mars in 2022. Being bullied in childhood, being sneered as an adult, Elon Musk with the child passion in his soul, is the unique gifted personality, who definitely will influence the existence of all human species.Jessica Brevil from Wekiva High, Apopka, Fla., noted the printer is a time-sensitive invention:Time controls effectiveness of innovation, as seen in the article, which is the reason why the statement that “Ideas do not exist only on their own merits. Timing matters.”. The fact is that certain things are simply not needed for their time. A printer was not needed centuries before the adoption of education systems and this innovation would seem useless in the past while it is essential in modern schools._________“Is Childhood Today Too Risk-Free?” was our second most popular prompt of the week. Students were mostly in agreement that childhood is too risk-free, although many said their own parents encouraged some kinds of risk, so didn’t count themselves in the overly protected category. Other students were aghast at the images of the playground in the article, and hoped for more of a natural and safer playground setting for children.Alyssa from Georgia said childhood is sterilized today:I think kids should learn about and experience risk at a young age, so they learn from it and won’t make that mistake again. I do think childhood is really sterilized today, parents should let their child have a little freedom to make mistakes and learn from them.Haleigh from Georgia said children learn from their mistakes:When I was a kid and played on the play ground it was safe to play on but we still managed to get hurt. Although we got hurt, we learned from it and never did the same thing again. I think this play ground is a little too risk taking for kids to play on but I also agree to making play ground a little risk just so the kids can learn from their mistakes. When you introduce risk at a young age kids learn at an early age to where they won’t do it again. I have been exposed to risk but I think I could’ve and should’ve been exposed to more; I would’ve learned more from my mistakes than I do because I haven’t been in those risky situations. With that being said I believe that this play ground is a good idea for young kids to be exposed to risks that they can learn from.Sneezy from Kaiserslautern, Germany, said risk is good for children:I feel that childhood today is too risk-free. The playgrounds that I grew up on were, what I would say, were the standard one; it had the slide, monkey bars, and these little spinny disk things comparable to merry-go-rounds. This playground didn’t compare at all to the “risk-enhanced’ ones. Some of the benefits that these risk-enhanced playgrounds have over traditional ones is that kids will be able to test their limits, how else will they know when to stop? These kids could be building a thin beam to walk across and fall out and hurt themselves. Yes, they did hurt themselves, but they learned that it did, and, hopefully at least, won’t do it again. And honestly, you can hurt yourself on any playground, risky or not.Derrik A. Mullin Jr from Kaiserslautern, Rheinland-Pfalz, Germany, agreed:I’m sick of kids being coddled and having everything sugar coated for them. When I was younger and we had money problems or family issues, I knew and was appreciative of the fact that my parents told me things straight and raw. I learned to keep myself busy with what we had. Now do I like video games and all that new, safe, indoors stuff? Of course I do. That doesn’t mean that playgrounds, sand boxes, mud pies, and wood carving weren’t what made me an early 2000s child, what made me who I am today. I didn’t get my first phone till I was 13 while I now see 6 year-olds with iPhones and tablets in their hands. You’re asking me if I think today’s children live a life too posh? Too risk free? Of course I do! They have everything bad in the world hid from them, they stay inside, they watch TV instead of going out with friends! Nothing is appreciated about the outdoors by the millennials of today, they’re too worried about their makeup, when the next iPhone is gonna come out, or how pretty they look in the mornings. I’m not at all suggesting children shouldn’t have any access to electronics or a somewhat safer environment, or that you should be telling them you’re gonna end up living in a car at the end of the month, but tell them when you don’t have enough money to buy them something, make sure they know how they look matters doesn’t matter and that they’ll always be gorgeous no matter what anyone else says.Bella Cankurtaran from Wilmington, N.C., did not enjoy viewing the images of the playground in the article:I’m pretty sure I shuddered while viewing the images of these British playgrounds. Recess is a time to let out all your energy in a colorful wonderland. The playgrounds these kids are exposed to look like prisons or some sort of war camp. These are children we are talking about! Their mind isn’t fully capable of understanding the risks put in front of them and actually learning from them. We develop that skill over time. Even today, I still make the same mistakes and get hurt each time. The article reported that a placard for Princess Diana Playground purposely provides risks “‘so that your child can develop an appreciation of risk in a controlled play environment rather than taking similar risks in an uncontrolled and unregulated wider world’”. No matter how much adult supervision there is, they can’t keep an eye on every child. Children get hurt on a regular playground so getting hurt on the British playgrounds will be a severely worse case. Nothing will stop kids from doing crazy things. They don’t know what to expect if they jump off a wooden crate or run their finger along the “sharp-edged tape dispenser”, and making that an option for them at this age can be fatal. Each day these children are exposed to danger that could possibly end their life and they can’t learn from that if they’re dead.Mary Wells from Wilmington, N.C., said exposure is very important to growth:When I was a child, I always looked forward to going outside to play with my friends on the playground. My favorite part was being able to swing like an animal across the monkey bars and see how far I could go in 30 seconds. Today, looking at this article, I find playgrounds in Europe are changing what we used to know as playgrounds into ones that have high risk factors. This is scary for younger children, who need security in their early years. Introducing risk factors not only shows them that it is okay to wander onto these dangerous sites, but also that it is encouraged. Children are at the stage where their minds are constantly changing and they hold on to information they receive. I believe that they should not be exposed to this environment at a young age because it teaches them that they should take high risks. In some situations, this is beneficial because they learn to take chances and not be afraid to try new things, but it also could be very dangerous for these little humans, who have not been in this world for very long. We take the time to show younger kids innocent videos and television, so why would we expose them to an environment that is not safe?anon1010 from Cincinnati said a feeling of being independent from adults is important for children:I think suburban areas are too sterilized. City kids still have opportunity for risk in their built environment and rural kids still have the unprotected woods for risky play. When I was in school, all the playground equipment was installed on asphalt — no rubber mats or mulch. Kids would jump off from the swings at the height of the swing or the merry-go-round at its fastest and land on pavement. There were occasional skinned knees, but no serious injuries. The bolder and more athletic would go on to more daring feats and everyone else learned their limits. The drawback of returning some risk is litigation. I grew up in the 70’s and I think I had the right amount of risk and freedom. It allowed me to separate from the adults in my life. Without risk during the young years, it seems that teens have been infantilized and are reluctant to try more adult activities (i.e. driving).AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAn N.C.A.A. bracket is a frightening thing. All those blank spaces. All those Lipscombs and Wright States and other teams you would struggle to name a single player on.——Follow our live coverage of March Madness here.——Fortunately, there is no shortage of experts, self-proclaimed and otherwise, with advice to guide you to all the winners. Here’s a roundup of selections from people in a position to know.• Where to turn first? How about that little-known college basketball tip sheet The New York Times? Marc Tracy and Zach Schonbrun have circled a few upsets, notably No. 12 New Mexico State over No. 5 Clemson, No. 13 Marshall over No. 4 Wichita State, No. 11 Loyola-Chicago over No. 6 Miami, No. 10 Providence over No. 7 Texas A&M, and No. 11 San Diego State over No. 6 Houston.After a 31-year N.C.A.A. tournament drought, Marshall beat the former Cinderella Middle Tennessee State to close the regular season, then held off a late comeback by Western Kentucky in the Conference USA title game. The Herd say they play “Hillbilly ball,” which means they spread the floor, run and take as many 3-pointers as possible. Sound familiar, N.B.A. fans? Did we mention that the coach, Dan D’Antoni, is the brother of the Houston Rockets’ coach, Mike? Also, Wichita State’s defense is not what it used to be, and that will be a problem.While the Times doesn’t actually predict that No. 16 Penn will upset No. 1 Kansas, it says the game is worth watching.The Quakers won the Ivy League, which had a down year but is still a more formidable conference than No. 16s typically come from; are expert at defending the 3-pointer; and are coached by Steve Donahue, who took Cornell to the round of 16 several years ago.• Jay Bilas of ESPN has established himself as one of the most prominent college basketball experts in the country. Oklahoma, who some had seen as a bubble team, was on his mind:We probably should’ve known Oklahoma was going to get in. The committee had them 16th in their reveal, which is crazy town. The committee revealed they thought more highly of Oklahoma than anyone who was watching. They weren’t close to the 16th best team when it was all said and done. It’s almost unjustifiable.Bilas picks a 3 seed, Michigan State, to win it all, as did two other ESPN notables, Dick Vitale and Seth Greenberg, perhaps surprising since M.S.U. will probably have to beat Duke and Kansas just to make the Final Four.Want to know who’s going to win the next big election? Fivethirtyeight.com is a good choice. But its number-crunching is also pretty good at picking sports.The site is cautious in its picks, selecting just three first-round upsets: No. 10 Texas over 7 Nevada, No. 10 Butler over No. 7 Arkansas, and No. 9 Florida State over No. 8 Missouri. It is picking No. 4 Gonzaga to upend No. 1 Xavier in the Final 16.But Five Thirty Eight is known for producing probabilities, not just straight picks. It is worthwhile when constructing your own bracket to know that while No. 1 seed Villanova has a 50 percent chance of making the Final Four, Virginia is at 47 percent, Kansas at 31 and Xavier at only 18.N.C.A.A. Men’s Tournament Bracket• Alex Kirshner at SB Nation circles four lower-seeded teams and says one or two will pull off the upset. Those are No. 12 Davidson over Kentucky, No. 12 New Mexico State over Clemson, No. 12 Murray State over West Virginia and No. 11 San Diego State over Houston.He also says No. 15 Lipscomb could stun North Carolina:A 15 seed beats a 2 about once every two or three years. The last was Middle Tennessee against Michigan State in 2016, and we’re coming due for another shock soon. Lipscomb — from the same Atlantic Sun that spawned Sweet 16 No. 15 seed Florida Gulf Coast in 2013 — is another potential chaos team. The Bisons love to run, and they enter the tournament ranked No. 5 nationally in adjusted tempo. They haven’t played anyone like North Carolina, obviously, but another Lipscomb strength has been defensive rebounding. Given that the Heels’ best strength is their offensive rebounding, this one’s worth monitoring.• At Bleacher Report, Kerry Miller ranks all 68 teams in order, from Villanova to North Carolina Central.Villanova has no ceiling. It’s just a question of how long the Wildcats can go without having a bad shooting night, and whether that happens to coincide with a subpar defensive effort. When they won the title in 2016, they only had one poor performance from the perimeter, but they defended like mad to beat Kansas in that game. There’s no reason they couldn’t do it again.• More data crunching. Ken Pomeroy is a well-respected college ranker. Like many others, he has Villanova and Virginia at the top of his list. He also has No. 2 Duke over Kansas and No. 2 North Carolina over Xavier.For first round upsets, he likes No. 10 Butler (56 percent chance to win), No. 10 Oklahoma (slightly more than 50 percent) and No. 9 Florida State (51 percent);.• Another computer ranker, Jeff Sagarin, also has Villanova and Virginia 1-2.• Those V teams dominate the selections at the Athletic also, with three of five picking Virginia and two Villanova to win it all.Amazingly, four of the five like No. 12 New Mexico State not only to beat No 5 Clemson, but also No. 4 Auburn and make the Final 16.• Want a winner a little more “off the wall” than Villanova or Virginia? Nick Birdsong at the Sporting News picks No. 1 Villanova, No. 2 Duke and No. 3 Michigan to make the Final Four, and then has No. 4 Arizona beating all of them, thanks to freshman Deandre Ayton.• A roundup of eight selectors assembled by CBS finds three selecting a No. 2 seed, Duke, to win in all and two going for Villanova, with one each for Virginia, North Carolina and Michigan State.Josh Nagel, a SportsLine analyst said:I think Duke has the best starting five in the country, and the most balance since it last won the title in 2015. Duke appears to have a manageable road, since Kansas has overachieved but I don’t see the Jayhawks as a real title contender. Of course Duke has to avoid foul trouble, fatigue and serious injuries. But Blue Devils appear to be the toughest out in a single-elimination format, and I’d like their chances against any team from the opposing brackets in the final.(Nagel also likes No. 11 San Diego State, No. 10 Providence and No. 10 Butler, and says the winner of the Arizona State-Syracuse play-in game will beat No. 6 TCU.)• In Las Vegas, the lines are up, and most books are settling on Villanova as the early favorite. But Duke is favored in the Midwest, not Kansas, and No. 3 Michigan is the top pick in the West, not No. 1 Xavier or No. 2 North Carolina.The better seeds are the favorites pretty much across the board, as you might expect, with just one clear exception. No. 10 Butler is a 1-point pick over No. 7 Arkansas.Believe it or not, some confident folks have already filled in their brackets. Over at Yahoo, these early birds have tabbed a couple of upsets: No. 10 Texas (56 percent of them) and No 10 Butler (54 percent). In later rounds, the group likes No. 2 North Carolina to make the Final Four rather than Xavier. The most popular pick to win it all is Virginia (25 percent) followed by Villanova (17 percent) and then second-seeded Duke, perhaps following the well-known theory “Duke always wins.”The most popular teams at Yahoo, by seed: 1, Virginia, 2. Duke, 3. Michigan State, 4. Arizona, 5. Kentucky 6. Florida, 7. Arkansas, 8. Missouri 9. N.C. State, 10.Texas 11. Loyola Ill., 12. New Mexico State 13. Marshall 14. Stephen F. Austin 15. Georgia State 16. Penn.There are almost as many opinions out there as there are tournament permutations. But only two brackets matter in the end: the one you fill out and the correct one. Hope they match this year — good luck!AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBracketology comes with many assumptions and suppositions. Don’t fall into these traps.By Marc TracyThe drama really began when the N.C.A.A. tournament expanded to 64 teams in 1985. Now anyone who could read and count had a neat, perfectly intelligible blank bracket to fill out. In the years since that expansion, memorable events have created a number of truisms about what transpires. Many are counterintuitive, favoring those upsets and surprising teams that we hold so dear.——Follow our live coverage of March Madness here.——But most of these truisms are false. Generally speaking, the supposedly unpredictable tournament is a lot more predictable than many think. As you fill out your bracket, consider these rules of thumb you may follow — and then consider not following them. N.C.A.A. Men’s Tournament BracketTell this to the 2012 Kentucky team and the 2015 Duke squad. Both teams had three freshmen who left college after a single season as their biggest stars and won it all. ​Two teams may​ not sound like a lot, but the one-and-done era is barely a decade old, and Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski and other notable coaches have begun recruiting these kinds of players in recent years. This year’s prime one-and-done team is, no surprise, Duke.We focus on the Cinderella stories. We remember the early upsets. We consider the tough matchups in the Round of 8. We think picking a No. 1 seed to defeat all comers in its quadrant seems like a bad idea. It’s not. Top seeds have comprised 42 percent of all Final Four teams since 1985. There were only two years when none made it. In 2008, all four top seeds made the Final Four. Fortune may favor the bold, but maybe don’t be too bold. This is the most celebrated first-round upset pick, because it nearly always happens once: Only twice since 2000 has a No. 5 seed not lost to a No. 12 seed. But over all, since 1985, the No. 5 seeds have won nearly two-thirds of their opening-round games. If you are picking all four No. 12s to win, you are probably doing it wrong; the numbers say pick one or two at most. Slightly more No. 11s have beaten No. 6s. The No. 13 seed has beaten a No. 4 in the first round only 20 percent of the time. And most famously: no No. 16 has beaten a No. 1. Yet.A good defense can get you far, but top defensive teams have tended to fall short in recent years​. Last year, Gonzaga had the country’s best defense, per KenPom.com, and lost the championship game to North Carolina, a strong defensive team that was stronger on offense. Other teams with highly-rated defenses and offenses include​ the 2016 champion Villanova, Duke’s winning teams in 2015 and 2010, and the 2012 champ Kentucky. This year, the best balanced teams are Michigan State and Duke. ​ The conference has a reputation for falling short in the N.C.A.A. tournament, and a Big Ten team hasn’t won the title since Michigan State in 2000, a drought exceeded among power conferences only by the Pacific-12, which hasn’t won since 1997. But since 2000, 14 Big Ten teams have reached the Final Four, which puts the conference in a first-place tie with the A.C.C. in that category, and seven have played in the title game. It’s O.K. to have faith in Purdue, Michigan or the Spartans.Too many people anticipate the champion will be a team most people don’t expect. If you are competing in a big pool, it may be a sly strategy to pick a dark horse. But the ultimate winner is usually a pretty likely suspect. North Carolina was third on the selection committee’s overall ratings heading into last year’s tournament. Villanova was seventh the year before, when it won. Duke was third the year before that. Louisville (2013) and Kentucky (2012) were both the top-ranked teams the years they won it all. That is what one famous T-shirt says, referring to the commonplace theory that Tom Izzo, Michigan State’s coach of 23 seasons, is a wizard of March, a leader who knows how to win tournament games. Izzo is a Hall of Fame coach, and the Spartans’ streak of 21 consecutive tournament appearances is the fifth-longest in history. But there is little evidence that Izzo particularly turns it on March. Izzo won his only national title when Michigan State was the top overall seed. But Michigan State has exited in the first round five times, three times in an upset. The Spartans once reached the Final Four while playing the teams seeded 16th, 9th, 12th and 11th in their region. Another time, they did so against opponents seeded 12th, 4th, 9th and 6th. They also sustained one of the worst upsets in tournament history two years ago, when, as the highest-ranked No. 2 seed, they lost to 15th-seeded Middle Tennessee State in the first round.Even in three years when Izzo took higher-seeded teams to the Final Four — 2005, 2009 and 2015 — there is evidence they were mis-seeded. The 2005 squad, for instance, was a No. 5 seed even though it ended the season as the fifth-best team in KenPom.com’s advanced ratings. Izzo’s teams tend to advance far because they tend to be good at playing basketball, not because of what the calendar says.Except when she doesn’t. The upstarts provide the most lasting memories, but there just have not been many lately. We were perhaps spoiled by recent runs, by Virginia Commonwealth and Butler (twice) and George Mason. Last year featured a No. 11 seed in the Round of 8, but it was Xavier, a recognized Big East power. The two highest “underdog” seeds to advance far two years ago were the second-weekend mainstays Gonzaga and Syracuse. The last true Cinderella might have been No. 11-seeded Dayton, which made the last eight four years ago. For various reasons (the hardening of the one-and-done era, fewer at-large bids to mid-majors), the Age of the Cinderella may be waning.  Everyone knows the names Lehigh and Mercer, because everyone remembers them, as No. 15 and No. 14 seeds in 2012 and 2014, upsetting Duke in the first round. Now it seems as if everyone eagerly awaits another such defeat. Don’t hold your breath. Yes, Duke really lost those games (crazy, right?). But Duke is the most successful team in the current era of college basketball. The Blue Devils have made the tournament all but one year since 1985, a period in which they have been to 12 Final Fours (more than one third of them) and won 5 titles. They have had only two other first-round exits. So go ahead and hope for another Duke embarrassment. Just don’t count on one. College football has an entrenched aristocracy that gobbles up all the national titles: the last time a team won it all for the first time was Florida, in 1996. By contrast, college basketball, with its freewheeling tournament, is much more open, right? Not really. Butler came close, twice, but the last time a basketball team won the tournament for the first time was 2006 (Florida again). Before that, it was Syracuse in 2003. Xavier and Gonzaga, a perennial contender, are still hunting their first titles. The favorites will be Duke, Michigan State, Villanova and North Carolina. The one exception is Virginia, which received the No. 1 overall seed, and has never won the title. Be careful there.An earlier version of this article misidentified the team that won the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time before Florida did in 2006. It was Syracuse in 2003, not Maryland in 2002.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunThey played loose and fearless, simply because they had nothing to lose. A No. 16 seed had never beaten a No. 1 seed in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. Who would ever think that the tiny University of Maryland-Baltimore County would be the ones to break through?Certainly not against Virginia, the top overall seed, a two-loss team that had handily won the nation’s toughest league — the Atlantic Coast Conference — and its conference tournament.But the N.C.A.A. tournament is different. The Cavaliers carried all the pressure; the Retrievers none of it. And they rode that carefree wave of insouciance to what might have to be considered the greatest upset in college basketball history.This one was for Princeton, East Tennessee State, Western Carolina — all the No. 16 seeds that had come close to upsets as the biggest underdogs on the biggest stage. Since 1985, No. 1 seeds had advanced at least to the second round 135 consecutive times. Virginia, playing only a few hours from home, would become the first to fail, 74-54, at the Spectrum Center in Charlotte.“We did it. We did it. It’s a dream come true,” U.M.B.C.’s 5-foot-8 point guard K.J. Maura said.——• Here’s the 2018 men’s N.C.A.A. tournament bracket.——As the buzzer sounded, some Virginia players wept. Others wandered about in a pallid state of shock. Coach Tony Bennett held back tears when asked by CBS to try to make sense of what had happened.“It stings,” he said. “This is life. It can’t define you.”Before Friday, U.M.B.C. had never beaten an A.C.C. team. They had lost to teams such as Army, Stony Brook, and Albany this season. They got into the tournament on a miracle 3-pointer by their senior leader, Jairus Lyles, in the America East conference tournament championship game.But there were the Retrievers, heading into halftime with a Final Four favorite and the game tied at 21.“We hadn’t shot particularly well,” forward Joe Sherburne said. “We made some silly turnovers. We felt there’s no way we’re not going to win this game. All we have to do is start hitting shots.”Out of the gate, U.M.B.C. went on an 8-1 run to establish a seven-point lead before the first media timeout.“At that moment, we started believing more in ourselves,” Maura said. “That gave us confidence to keep getting the shot selection we needed.”The Retrievers hit 5 of their first 8 shots, and with 15:52 remaining, they had already put Virginia in the largest deficit it has faced all season (13 points).The lead would only grow from there. As time kept ticking, the Cavaliers kept pressing, their panic growing increasingly evident. They were never an offensively explosive team. And coming back from a sizable deficit was made even more difficult when shooting just 4 of 22 from beyond the arc.“It starts with our defense,” U.M.B.C. Coach Ryan Odom said. “We were able to get stops, and when we’re able to get stops, our guys are able to run and push the ball.”Virginia possessed the nation’s top statistical defense, featuring a scheme known as the Pack Line, which concentrates shots out toward the perimeter, effectively daring teams to shoot. So that’s exactly what the Retrievers did. They just so happened to go 12 of 24 from 3-point range.“We had to dominate that stat right there in order to even have a chance,” Odom said. “And, you know, certainly that proved to be true.”Virginia suffered a blow just before the tournament began: De’Andre Hunter, the conference’s Sixth Man of the Year award winner and one of the best defenders in the country, was ruled out with a wrist fracture suffered in the A.C.C. tournament.How big a factor that was will remain a question for history. For now, U.M.B.C. gets to claim it was the one to finally slay the dragon of March.U.M.B.C. joins the No. 16 Harvard women’s basketball team, which beat No. 1 seed Stanford in 1998, in the N.C.A.A. record books.Here’s what else happened in the first round on Friday:Marek Dolezaj scored 17 points before fouling out and 11th-seeded Syracuse shut down sixth-seeded T.C.U. for a 57-52 victory in the Midwest Region of the N.C.A.A. tournament on Friday night.The Orange (22-13) won for the second time in the tournament and advanced to face third-seeded Michigan State on Sunday by holding off the Horned Frogs with another impressive defensive effort. Both teams shot under 40 percent from the field.T.C.U. (21-12) is still without an N.C.A.A. tournament victory since 1987, when coach Jamie Dixon was a player. This was the school’s first appearance since 1998, and it was short-lived.Auburn narrowly avoided being the third No. 4 seed to go down in a controversial finish in San Diego. The Tigers held on to beat College of Charleston, 62-58.Charleston’s Grant Riller had a 3-point look to tie the game with 3.6 seconds remaining, but his shot fell well short. Replays appeared to show Auburn guard Bryce Brown make contact with Riller’s elbow on the shot, but the referees didn’t blow the whistle. Charleston Coach Earl Grant was understandably apoplectic, but to no avail.It was a tight game throughout, with no team leading by more than 7. The Cougars threatened to be the third No. 13 seed to upset a No. 4 in the opening round, something that’s never happened before.It wasn’t always easy, but No. 3-seeded Michigan State got past a plucky Bucknell team, 82-78.The game got chippy toward the end as frustration began to creep in for the No. 14-seeded Bison. After shooting well in the first half, Bucknell went ice cold in the second, going nearly 12 minutes without a field goal. This allowed Michigan State to pull away, led by Miles Bridges (29 points, 9 rebounds), who dominated the game both inside and out.Zach Thomas (27 points) was practically Bucknell’s only offensive weapon, but he fouled out with six minutes left. The Spartans assisted on 21 of their 31 made field goals, blocked six shots, and outrebounded the Bison, 40-27.N.C.A.A. Men’s Tournament BracketMo Bamba blocked the first shot. But one was not enough.A drive by Nevada’s Jordan Caroline, trailing by one in the final seconds, brought the guard face-to-face with the 7-foot freshman center for No. 10-seeded Texas with the 7-9 wingspan. Advantage: Bamba. He blocked the first shot attempt, but the ball went back into Caroline’s hands and he went right back up. Bamba was called for the foul (his fifth) and Caroline made one of two free throws with 3.8 seconds left to tie the game.After trailing by as much as 14 in the second half, No. 7- seeded Nevada was able to take Texas to overtime. And in the extra period, with Bamba on the bench, the Wolf Pack took advantage, winning 87-83, in a terrific game.Caleb Martin hit three 3-pointers in overtime, finishing with 18 points and 10 rebounds. Though the Longhorns had a significant size advantage — they outrebounded Nevada, 42-34 — the Wolf Pack shot 50.8 percent from the field with 11 3-pointers.So Butler advances after a very strange game indeed.The No. 10 seed Bulldogs had the 21-2 lead early in the first half and looked dominating — then the game spiraled out of control as momentum swung toward No. 7 Arkansas and Butler couldn’t make a bucket. Then the Razorbacks went cold to end the half trailing by five.And in the second half, Butler shot 60 percent from the floor, including five more 3-pointers (11 total), and outrebounded Arkansas 20-5.And there you have it. Butler has now won at least one N.C.A.A. tournament game in seven straight appearances.The nation’s second-best defense followed its formula for success in their first round win over No. 15 seed Georgia State, 68-53.With 20 offensive rebounds, No. 2 seed Cincinnati made it tough for the Panthers to ever get the ball. And when they did, there was always tight, physical pressure on the ball. There will be questions about whether the Bearcats can score enough, but they are a difficult matchup for a lot of teams.We have our second No. 13 seed into the second round!Following the incredible performance of Buffalo last night, Marshall has stunned the No. 4 seed Wichita State in San Diego, 81-75, in the Thundering Herd’s first N.C.A.A. tournament appearance in 31 years.It was the Jon Elmore show on Friday. Not afraid to pull up from anywhere — at times, it looked like he might shoot from the scorer’s table — the junior guard scored 27 points with four rebounds and four assists to pull off an upset against a team that knows a thing or two about surprising March runs.The final 35 seconds took about 10 minutes to finish, due to multiple lengthy referee reviews on balls knocked out of bounds. That sucked some of the drama out of the closing moments. But there was always the chance that Wichita’s Conner Frankamp was going to unload from deep and pull off a miracle. He made five 3-pointers and scored 24 points.The Herd is known for its offense, but it also had 12 steals, forced 15 turnovers, and scored 26 points off those turnovers in this game. It’s the first time that two No. 13 seeds have won in the first round since 2008.Carsen Edwards and Vincent Edwards scored 15 points apiece, and second-seeded Purdue shook off a slow start to roll past No. 15 Cal State Fullerton 74-48 in the NCAA East Region.The win came at with a price. Coach Matt Painter announced senior center Isaac Haas will miss the remainder of the tournament with a fractured right elbow. Haas fell on the elbow midway through the second half while going for a rebound, He remained in the game but X-rays revealed after the contest a fracture in his elbow that will require surgery.Haas is a finalist for the Kareem Abdul-Jabbar Award given to the nation’s top center. He finishes the season averaging 14.7 points and 5.7 rebounds per game. He finished with nine points and 10 rebounds in Purdue’s win over the Titans on Thursday.No. 10 Providence was a popular pick to advance in the N.C.A.A. tournament, based on how well the Friars played in the Big East tournament, taking Villanova to overtime in the title game. But it was always about whether or not they could shoot well enough. And they went cold at the wrong time.No. 7 Texas A&M used a 9-0 run late to pull away from the Friars for the 73-69 victory.Providence was one of the best teams in the country in tight games this season, going 8-0 in games decided by four points or less — 8-1 now.An earlier version of this article misstated the score at halftime of Virginia’s loss to U.M.B.C. It was tied at 21, not 31. An earlier version of this article also misidentified Texas A&M’s conference. The Aggies are in the Southeastern Conference, not the Big 12. (Texas A&M left the Big 12 in 2012.)The Associated Press contributed to this report.AdvertisementThe Art Production Fund raised $500,000 for public art programs at its March 13 gala at the former Four Seasons restaurant, now called the Landmark Rooms. The artists Gerard & Kelly created a performance for the occasion in the pool room. Galas were held this week for the Art Production Fund, Williamstown Theatre Festival, Citymeals on Wheels and Human Rights Watch.AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Caroline Crosson GilpinWill you be filling out a bracket for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament this year? Will you be watching the games?Watch the short video below. It reports on how a math professor from Davidson College and four girls from the Broadway show “Matilda the Musical” chose their brackets for the tournament in March of 2014.What did you learn about the brackets used for betting on men’s college basketball, or about the way people select the teams?In “Think the N.C.A.A. Bracket’s Too Easy? Try One of These Pools,” Marc Tracy writes:Starting in the 1970s, eight prosecutors in the Justice Department’s Public Integrity Section set up a standing meeting. Once a year, they would gather in the deputy attorney general’s conference room and run an elaborate pool for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.“We mostly followed the law,” said Reid Weingarten, one of the pool’s charter members.The pool lasted decades, surviving long after the colleagues had left for other jobs. Like most N.C.A.A. tournament pools, it brought friends together for good old-fashioned fun. Any financial stakes paled in comparison to the competitive ones. Participants got carried away with preselection research. And they were merciless in lambasting one another’s pet predilections.“Eric” — that would be Eric H. Holder Jr., the future attorney general — “would always pick U.C.L.A., because he was a Kareem guy,” Weingarten said, referring to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar’s alma mater. “And he would always pick the Ivy League team, because he went to Columbia.”But what made the bracket truly unusual was its structure. The participants did not pick games; rather, they drafted teams. (Random selection dictated the drafting order.) Owning the team that won it all merited the largest reward, of course, but it also was worth something to have a team that made the Final Four or the lowest-seeded team to make the round of 16.This was not, in other words, your ordinary office pool.“I find blind pool picking tedious, ridiculous and not fun,” Weingarten said.That is not to say there is anything wrong with simple pools; millions of Americans take part in one every March, often merely for the prize of office or family bragging rights. In fact, one recently existed in a place even higher than the Justice Department. For the previous six N.C.A.A. tournaments, Kyle Lierman, then of the White House Office of Public Engagement, ran BOTUS — Bracket of the United States — for hundreds of members of President Barack Obama’s staff. (He will run the pool again this year; it has been rechristened BOTUS 44.)There were no financial stakes, Lierman said, and the president’s bracket, publicly filled out on ESPN, was automatically entered every year. “He did well a couple years,” Lierman said. “Other years, not so well.”The N.C.A.A. tournament, which kicks off Tuesday, is the Super Bowl of sports wagering. Actually, it is the Super Bowl twice over. The American Gaming Association, a trade group for the casino industry, estimated that Americans will wager more than $10 billion on the tournament this year, most of it illegally, compared with $4.7 billion on the Super Bowl. And that figure does not include the multitudes of office pools, with their $5 or $10 entry fees. Officially, the N.C.A.A. opposes “all forms of legal and illegal sports wagering.”“Despite the N.C.A.A.’s protests against gambling,” said Geoff Freeman, the chief executive of the gaming association, which supports the broad legalization of sports wagering, “they’ve created the biggest gambling event in American history. They wisely did it with great marketing, tremendous use of the bracket and infiltration into the American cultural lifestyle.”Most pools are straightforward: Take a blank bracket, predict winners for every game and submit it before the first one tips off. But for a certain breed of fan, like those aforementioned anticorruption lawyers, the standard one-size-fits-all pool is not enough. Several have devised sophisticated, even byzantine alterations on the theme.Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:— Will you participate in a pool or a bracket competition this month? If so, what do you like about doing it, and why? Is the bracket competition more fun than the actual games? Why or why not?— Do you bet on any sport during the year? Describe your way of participating, and what you enjoy about it. If you don’t participate, what sport might you like to bet on, and why?— If basketball isn’t your thing, what bracket-style competition can you imagine that you might enjoy more? For instance, maybe you’d like to participate in March Book Madness?For more inspiration, see the Learning Network’s March Madness: Using Tournament Brackets to Debate Academic Questions.Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementA piano recording of the CBS N.C.A.A. tournament theme written and performed by Bob Christianson.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by“This is our March Madness. But we’re having the wrong kind of madness.”BOB BAFFERT, a Hall of Fame horse trainer, after hearing on the eve of racing season that Santa Anita Park, an elite race track in California, just saw its 23rd horse fatality since Dec. 26.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The Latest on the championship game of the NCAA Tournament between Virginia and Texas Tech (all times local):1 p.m.No matter what happens in the title game between Virginia and Texas Tech, the ACC already will walk away from this NCAA Tournament with significant bragging rights.The conference is 14-6 through 66 games in the tournament, the most wins of any of the 32 conferences in March Madness. Virginia winning the title would give the ACC at least two more wins than any other league.The Big Ten is 13-8 after Michigan State lost to Texas Tech on Saturday night. The Red Raiders with five wins are carrying the Big 12 at 8-5, with a chance for one more victory. The SEC finished the tournament 12-7.Of course, the Big Ten won the conference battle this year in another, important respect: the money. The league has earned at least $35.5 million with its showing this year, based on the payout system the NCAA uses to distribute money from the massive television deal for March Madness. The ACC made at least $33.8 million and the SEC with its highest share ever generated at least $32.1 million.___noonThe last game of the long grind of the NCAA Tournament is finally here: Texas Tech, Virginia, a championship on the line.It's setting up as a clinic on defense. Fans are buying into that billing, too — gamblers drove down the over/under on the game from 121 to 117½ rather quickly after the Cavaliers and Red Raiders won in the Final Four.Virginia stunned Auburn 63-62 when Kyle Guy sank three free throws with 0.6 seconds left after a late foul call. Texas Tech grinded past Michigan State 61-51 thanks to 22 points from Matt Mooney.The teams have another round of practice on Sunday before the game on Monday night. Players and coaches are also meeting with reporters for the last time before the confetti falls in Minneapolis.___AdvertisementAdvertisement
MARCH 15, 2017

You've won your office's N.C.A.A. tournament pool three times in the last five years? You picked Middle Tennessee State to beat Michigan State last year? This quiz is for you.
Related Article
AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPicture PromptsBy Natalie ProulxDid you make a bracket, join a pool or watch any of March Madness this year? How many of your predictions were correct? In your opinion, what were the biggest upsets of the tournament?What is your reaction to the men’s and women’s N.C.A.A. champions?Overall what did you think of this year’s tournament? Who do you hope to see compete in the Final Four next year?Tell us in the comments, then read the related articles to learn more about the men’s and women’s championship games.Find many more ways to use our Picture Prompt feature in this lesson plan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAn average of 19.6 million people watched as Virginia beat Texas Tech in the NCAA Tournament championship game, an increase of 23% over last year.The audience peaked at 23.5 million during overtime Monday night, according to Nielsen and CBS.Last year's championship game between Villanova and Michigan averaged 16.5 million on TBS, TNT and TruTV.The news was not all good for CBS, however. Monday was the first time since 2009 that a title game averaged less than 20 million on network television. The 2009 game between North Carolina and Michigan State averaged 17.7 million.Overall tournament coverage across CBS, TNT, TBS and TruTV averaged 10.5 million viewers, up 8% over last year.CBS and Turner also said in a release that their NCAA March Madness Live set all-time tournament records in live streams (over 100 million) and live hours consumed (over 24 million).___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunIt was a tough day for the A.C.C., with Louisville and Duke both getting knocked out in the round of 32, and No. 1 North Carolina narrowly escaping an upset against Arkansas. Here’s a look at what happened Sunday:Wisconsin, Florida, Baylor and South Carolina. That’s what is left of your East region. North Carolina. That’s what is left from the Atlantic Coast Conference in the N.C.A.A. tournament, after the No. 7 seed Gamecocks knocked off No. 2 Duke in a stunning upset, 88-81, on Sunday night.The winners of the A.C.C. tournament championship in Brooklyn, Duke roared into March like a team finally hitting its stride. Paced by star freshman Jayson Tatum, the conference’s leading scorer Luke Kennard, and an enigmatic talent off the bench, Grayson Allen, the Blue Devils were looking like favorites to tear through the bracket, potentially setting up a showdown with top seed Villanova in the Round of 8 at Madison Square Garden.Well, Wisconsin took care of the Wildcats on Saturday. And a day later, South Carolina, playing in front of a raucous crowd just 100 miles from its campus, obliterated Duke in the second half.The Gamecocks had not won an N.C.A.A. tournament game before Friday since 1973. But they played the role of aggressors in the second half against Duke and its five-time champion coach, Mike Krzyzewski.After making just seven field goals in the entire first half, South Carolina shot 71 percent from the floor in the second, looking quicker, stronger and hungrier than the Blue Devils. Foul trouble kept Kennard from becoming a factor, and South Carolina stretched its zone to really bother Duke’s shooters.Sindarius Thornwell, who scored 29 points in the Gamecocks’ win over Marquette on Friday, was terrific again, finishing with a game-high 24 points.“When you shoot 7 for 35 in the first half and you’re down just 7 points, I tell you, it just gives you confidence,” Thornwell said. “It was our defense. It kept us in it. We thought we could win the game coming out the second half because of shooting so poorly the first half.”Point guard Duane Notice was impossible to keep out of the paint, scoring 17 points on 6 of 8 field goals.North Carolina nearly lost on that same court in Greenville in the game before this one, but the Tar Heels rallied to hold off Arkansas. After No. 2 Louisville’s loss earlier in the day, though, the A.C.C., which set a record with nine teams in the tournament, is down to just one: the Tar Heels.Meanwhile, South Carolina moves on to play in New York, where it will face No. 3 Baylor in a matchup that few could have ever seen coming.North Carolina defeats Gonzaga to win its sixth N.C.A.A. championship.Oregon is moving on to the round of 16 after coming from behind to beat upstart No. 11 seed Rhode Island, 75-72.Down by eight at halftime, and by 11 with 13 minutes remaining, the Ducks leaned on sophomore Tyler Dorsey (27 points) and junior Dillon Brooks (19 points) to climb back in it.Rhode Island got a huge performance from Stanford Robinson, who scored 21 points off the bench on 10-12 field goals, including a tip-in with 2:11 left to give Rhode Island a 72-68 lead. A 3-pointer by Tyler Dorsey tied it 30 seconds later. He would put Oregon up again with 30 seconds left after burying another three.Down 75-72, with no timeouts, Rhode Island had one last chance to tie the game. But a long 3-pointer by E.C. Matthews, defended by Jordan Bell, sailed long.Well, that was interesting. North Carolina narrowly — narrowly — avoided being the second No. 1 seed to get knocked off in the opening weekend, beating Arkansas, 72-65.The Tar Heels did not make it easy on themselves. After leading at one point 30-13 late in the first half, North Carolina let No. 8 Arkansas creep back and then, finally, take the lead with 12 minutes remaining in the game.The Tar Heels were sloppy with the ball (17 turnovers) and putrid shooting the ball (38 percent from the field). The Razorbacks led by three with just over two minutes remaining. But it seemed as though Arkansas simply ran out of gas.A 6-0 run and some energized defensive stands against an exhausted Arkansas team gave the Tar Heels a 68-65 lead with 35.7 seconds left. Arkansas had a chance to trim it but Moses Kingsley missed two free throws.After a missed free throw by Isaiah Hicks, Arkansas guard Anton Beard pulled up for a potential game-tying 3-pointer with 14 seconds left. It clanged off the back rim.Arkansas went scoreless in the final 3 minutes 31 seconds of the game. North Carolina won with its defense, because its offense looked very out of sorts.When Michigan State cut Kansas’s lead to 54-53 with 12 minutes remaining, fans buckled up for an exciting finish. Unfortunately, it never came to be.The No. 1 Jayhawks outscored the Spartans, 36-17, from that point on to win easily, 90-70. There just was no stopping Kansas out in the open floor. The game became a highlight reel of alley-oops and dunks. Four players scored in double figures, led by Josh Jackson (23 points), Frank Mason III (20 points), and Deonte Graham (18 points).Foul trouble for Michigan State’s Nick Ward, and a banged up Miles Bridges meant the Spartans were not the same as they had been on Friday. Coach Tom Izzo squeezed everything he could out of his team, but they just ran out of steam.The No. 2 seed in the South region is still alive.Kentucky withstood a late rally by No. 10 seed Wichita State in what was a highly physical, strong defensive matchup, winning, 65-62. The Shockers did not let the Wildcats play their style: fast-paced and above-the-rim. But this young and dangerous Kentucky team proved it could win anyway.The Shockers trailed by five, 58-53, with 2:30 left when Landry Shamet was fouled attempting a 3-pointer. He hit all three free throws to cut the deficit to 2.Shamet hit another 3-pointer with 55 seconds left to make it a 1-point game —- 19 of his 20 points came in the second half. After a Kentucky miss, Wichita had a chance to take the lead. But Malik Monk blocked a deep shot attempt by Markis MaDuffie with 10 seconds remaining.It was one of two blocks on deep shots in the closing seconds that sealed the win and showed how good Kentucky’s perimeter defenders can be at closing out. After Monk connected on two free throws, making it a 3-point game, the Shockers still had a chance. But Bam Adebayo blocked Shamet’s 3-point attempt as time expired.Now it’s getting serious.No. 7 Michigan’s improbable run continued Sunday as it stormed back from a 9-point second-half deficit to upset No. 2 Louisville, 73-69, in Indianapolis.The Wolverines have not lost since that plane incident before the Big Ten tournament. Now they are heading to the round of 16. Sophomore forward Mo Wagner had a huge second half, finishing with a career-high 26 points on 11 of 14 field goals to lead Michigan.A Louisville steal and a layup out of the full-court press made it a 2-point game with just under a minute. But Derrick Walton Jr. drove and scooped it high off the glass with 29 seconds left to put the Wolverines back ahead by 4.Layups by Donovan Mitchell (19 points) kept bringing the margin down to 2. But Michigan’s D.J. Wilson was clutch at the free-throw line, going 4 for 4 in the closing seconds to keep Louisville at bay.Louisville’s defense flustered Michigan in the first half, but the Cardinals’ youth and inexperience showed down the stretch with some bad fouls and stagnant offense. Coach Rick Pitino had cracked before the game that many of his players are so young they did not know who Grant Hill is. On the other side, Michigan, led by seniors Walton and Zak Irvin, still have yet to crack under pressure.Before any second-round action tipped off, a shockwave was sent around the college basketball world early Sunday: Mike Hopkins, an assistant under Coach Jim Boeheim for 22 years, and the designated coach-in-waiting once Boeheim retires, was named the new coach at Washington, according to the Huskies’ twitter account.The move was initially reported by ESPN.Coach Hop, a respected tactician and recruiter, apparently got tired of waiting. Though he has had offers to leave Syracuse in the past, Hopkins had always remained at the Hall of Famer Boeheim’s side. Boeheim has said repeatedly he intended to retire after the 2017-18 season.Now, that might have to be seriously re-evaluated. Or perhaps Hopkins knew it already was.Hopkins, a Southern California native, played for Syracuse and began coaching there in 1995. At Washington, he will inherit a program that had the No. 3 recruiting class in the nation, according to ESPN, although a lot of that depends on what happens with the top prospect Michael Porter, Jr., who has indicated he might reopen his recruitment.It was certainly not a good weekend for Syracuse, which lost in the second round of the N.I.T. on Saturday to Ole Miss. fRay Glier contributed reporting from Greenville, S.C.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Juliet MacurWhen Debbie Antonelli got the phone call from CBS Sports a month ago, asking her if she was interested in working this year’s N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament as an on-air analyst, she said, “Yes, of course.” How could she not be?After 29 years as a sideline reporter and analyst at hundreds of games, after thousands of miles traveling and thousands of hours studying teams and plays and players, Antonelli, 52, was being asked — finally — to be a leading voice at what she considers basketball’s Super Bowl.Her husband, Frank, congratulated her. Her three sons were excited, too.“My sons said a few ‘wows’ and ‘Ooh, I hope you get this team and that team,’” Antonelli said Wednesday in a phone call from the car-pool line at her youngest sons’ high school. “But my coolness factor lasted about three minutes.”I like the way her sons think.In 2017, why must it be news that a woman like Antonelli, who has worked men’s games since the mid-1990s, was chosen as a broadcaster for two rounds of men’s N.C.A.A. tournament games? Women have broadcast big-time men’s games for years. Doris Burke, who calls N.B.A. games for ESPN and ABC, has been a staple of broadcast coverage for two decades, and Jessica Mendoza, the Olympic softball player, has had a leading role in ESPN’s baseball coverage since 2015.In 2015, Beth Mowins, who had called college football games for years, became the second woman to work as a play-by-play announcer for an N.F.L. game.What makes Antonelli’s recent hiring remarkable, though, is just how long it has been since the last woman, Ann Meyers Drysdale, worked on an N.C.A.A. men’s tournament broadcast. Meyers Drysdale helped call two rounds — in 1995.I asked Antonelli about that yawning gap, and she couldn’t explain it, saying, “I don’t have the answer for that.”I asked Meyers Drysdale about it, too, and she was just as perplexed.“To me, gender is not that big a deal,” she said. “A pick-and-roll is a pick-and-roll. There are plenty of people qualified to call the game, and plenty of them are women.“You might want to ask who’s in charge of the hiring.”So I called Sean McManus, the chairman of CBS Sports, and did just that.“I don’t really know the answer to that question,” he admitted, “except probably it was easy to keep assigning the cast of regulars to the tournament. It just wasn’t on our radar screen.”The thing is, McManus said he had watched and admired Antonelli, who is under contract with ESPN, for so many years that he couldn’t pinpoint the date when he had first noticed her. And when, he said, someone at CBS brought up her name this year — along with the idea to use her broad expertise in an analyst’s role, rather than for infrequent hits as a sideline reporter — the group decided, “Boy, that’s a no-brainer,”But if it was a no-brainer, why did two decades go by without someone thinking of hiring her? It could be, McManus said, that Antonelli works for ESPN, and CBS Sports didn’t think it could hire her away for the tournament, which the network ended up doing quite easily this year.Or, he said, it was “probably just an oversight and a little bit of a lack of creativity, perhaps.” McManus was clear that Antonelli had finally been hired because of her expertise, because of her reputation for preparation and good work — and not because she is a woman.Antonelli knows that her big chance will come with big-time pressure to succeed, in terms of her getting another shot, and for all women who want to be treated equally in roles that remain, to many, male domains.“There’s no margin for error if you hear a woman’s voice during a broadcast,” Antonelli acknowledged. “If you make a mistake, they’ll say, ‘It figures.’ And they will blame it on me being a woman.”Antonelli tries not to think about that. Instead, she thinks about basketball.A North Carolina native and three-year starter on N.C. State’s team, she began her broadcasting career calling Ohio State women’s games. And from there, she never stopped.Dayton’s men. Missouri Valley Conference contests. Her Twitter bio reads like a bowl of alphabet soup: The W.N.B.A. CBS. ESPN. Raycom. She has called the Women’s Final Four on radio and worked the A.C.C. men’s tourney on television.One thing she has not done, though, is dwell on being a woman in sports.“I know this is a big issue for women, for me to work these games, and I think it’s a sad state of affairs that this is the case,” she said. “Just look at the generations of girls who have played this game and how far they have come. But this is still an issue? I don’t even think about the woman part of it. I think about being an athlete.”Also on her mind: doing the job well.When CBS Sports announced that Antonelli would join its broadcasting team, she was in her car, trying to focus on the two games she would be working that night at the A.C.C. women’s tournament in Conway, S.C. Texts, phone calls and emails poured in, all offering congratulations. Antonelli marked the moment in a familiar way: She drove straight to a Waffle House and ordered her usual: a bacon, egg and cheese sandwich, with a cup of coffee.She will get her assignments after the bracket is filled on Sunday. Until then, Antonelli has no time to waste, no time to debate critics on Twitter, no time to pat herself on the back for breaking into a man’s realm.No time, because she has work to do.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersLetty Cottin Pogrebin, a founding editor of Ms. magazine, and other readers wonder: What about that unity thing?To the Editor:Re “Anti-Semitism Accusations Roil Women’s March” (front page, Dec. 24):For more than 35 years I’ve witnessed leftists form a firing squad in a circle while our mutual enemies ride off into the sunset unscathed. In 1982 I wrote an investigative article for Ms. magazine that detailed many of the same fevered schisms among Jewish women and women of color that your article discussed. Louis Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader, was the ignition switch back then, too.Some Women’s March leaders say they’ve been educating themselves about the evils of anti-Semitism, as if they missed the memo until Jewish women expressed pain and shock at their exclusion from organizing efforts and their omission from the published “unity principles” enumerating which groups of women in particular should be “free.” Many anti-racists continue to insist that only people of color can be oppressed and that most Jews, being white, benefit from “white skin privilege.” Yet somehow our “privilege” didn’t save the 11 people massacred in a Pittsburgh synagogue this fall by a man with the same color skin.Since the first Women’s March, in 2017, a number of feminist intermediaries have tried to help bridge the organizers’ ideological and political gaps, with scant success. Until all of us understand that racism and anti-Semitism are the same toxic madness split at the root, and until we embrace intersectionality without defining any woman out, our struggle against sexism and racism will be hobbled by our squabbles with one another.Letty Cottin PogrebinNew YorkThe writer is a founding editor of Ms. magazine and the author of 11 books, including “Deborah, Golda and Me: Being Female and Jewish in America.”To the Editor:I was horrified to learn that there are apparently insurmountable fissures in a once seemingly unified Women's March, a march I was honored to participate in last year. As a supporter of women's rights and a citizen deeply concerned with human rights, I now plan not to march at all, because of the disgraceful decision to separate the New York March into two marches — one “being led by women of color,” the other “stressing its denunciation of anti-Semitism.” I suspect that many others will feel the same.Eva MeklerNew YorkTo the Editor: I helped organize marches that occurred across America in January 2017. If you are questioning whether to participate in a local march next month, know that the marches that took place — in all 50 states and all over the world — were organized by thousands of women who are leaders in their own communities, many of them first-time leaders.We need to change the perception that four women who worked on the Women’s March on Washington represent all of us. And for those who believe that reporting on anti-Semitism is dividing the movement, I say it’s not. It’s about calling out bad behavior and letting the real work continue.Tina CassidyBrookline, Mass.To the Editor:Tamika Mallory, one of the Women’s March organizers, disqualified herself as a leader of a group dedicated to upholding human rights when she stated that “white Jews, as white people, uphold white supremacy.” Racially based generalizations like this are not only grossly inaccurate but dangerous as well. I am a white Jew, and I am proud of the role that Jews have played in fighting discrimination against every group.Bill GottdenkerMountainside, N.J.To the Editor: Great. For two years, millions of women came together in marches around the country to show their opposition to an anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim, misogynistic and divisive president. Now there’s a rift among founders of the original march amid allegations of anti-Semitism. Women united in their opposition to Mr. Trump are divided and sniping at one another. Congratulations — he couldn’t have hoped for a better outcome.Eileen WestPleasantville, N.Y.To the Editor:What about the exclusion of conservative women? We have been locked out of everything, but particularly by the Women’s March, and shamed by our liberal “sisters” for our conservative views (and votes). If you aren’t liberal in this country, you don’t belong, woman or not. Jan McCarthyKeswick, Va.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressIn the 30 seasons since the NCAA Tournament started morphing into "March Madness," 120 teams have traveled the road to the Final Four. That's 120 unique formulas that have worked to make it onto college basketball's biggest stage.For all the debate about what counts more toward building a championship program — great teams with veteran leaders and role players versus outstanding individual talent, even if that talent makes only a short pit stop in college before going to the pros — an Associated Press analysis of rosters found that one factor outweighs all else:The most surefire way to consistently advance deep into the tournament is by amassing players with enough NBA potential to leave college early.The AP analyzed rosters of every team to make the tournament at least 10 times over the last 30 years and saw a trend that goes beyond the anecdotes and occasional tales of magical runs that have underscored the storytelling driving this debate for decades. The conclusion, as succinctly summed up by Gonzaga coach Mark Few: "It's not a big secret. If you want to win and advance in this tournament, you have to have NBA talent.""You can get the NBA talent through recruiting one-and-dones, or you can do it through development," Few said. "But whether it's one-and-dones or two-and-dones, you have to have it."A wealth of NBA talent has been the mainstay on perennial contenders such as Kentucky, Duke and Kansas, which are among the programs that stand out in the AP analysis. Of the 79 teams the AP analyzed (including seven that made fewer than 10 appearances but went to the Final Four at least once), those blue bloods, along with North Carolina and Connecticut, were the only programs that averaged nearly three wins — a trip to the Elite Eight — per tournament appearance since 1989. All of those teams were also in the top 10 of programs that had the most early entries in the NBA draft over the same span.And though this year's Final Four is being touted as one in which experience and teamwork won out over NBA-ready talent, three of the teams in Minneapolis this week do, in fact, have underclassmen on the roster who could be first-round draft picks. Sophomores Jarrett Culver of Texas Tech and DeAndre Hunter of Virginia are potential lottery picks in this year's NBA draft, and even Auburn made it this far with the help of now-injured sophomore Chuma Okeke, who is widely considered to have first-round ability.The reality only serves to heighten the debate about what is essentially the professionalization of college basketball. It's an issue that has become increasingly fraught in the wake of FBI investigations that further reinforced the influence that big money, shoe companies and the prospects of pro stardom have on the college game."There are some things that are wrong with it, things that take place that are inappropriate," said Auburn coach Bruce Pearl , who himself has been previously banned by the NCAA and, more recently, has seen a handful of his Tigers assistants caught up in the current probe. "That's the business of college basketball. The reason why the NCAA is involved in this is because it's their job to monitor."There are, of course, exceptions to the talent-equals-titles rule. This year's Michigan State squad doesn't appear to have any NBA-ready underclassmen on its roster, even though the Spartans are a program that traditionally draws that sort of talent.The Loyola-Chicagos, George Masons and VCUs of the world are the teams that prove, semi-regularly, that anything is possible, and are a big part of the reason the tournament captivates America every spring. But they are the outliers. The reality is that gritty, unselfish teamwork is nice, but raw talent is better."It's like when I go to (fried chicken restaurant) Grandy's, do I want double mashed potatoes or mashed potatoes and corn?" said Texas Tech coach Chris Beard. "I want both. So we would love to have All-Americans and turn 'em into grinders."As Gonzaga's role in the sport has morphed from plucky underdog to perennial power over the past two decades, Few says he's changed his strategy from one that emphasized roster building to one that focuses on roster management."The most important part of the year now is April and May," he said, in a nod to the period when NBA-caliber players such as Rui Hachimura and Brandon Clarke make their decisions about whether to stay or go. "You project what they're going to do, then you plan accordingly."No program runs on the hamster wheel of quick turnover more than Kentucky. Not surprisingly, the Wildcats, thanks largely to the impact of the one-and-done factory John Calipari has been running for the past decade, have been to the tournament 29 times since 1989 and sent 45 players to NBA before they graduated. They average just shy of three victories per trip, and just shy of 1.7 early departures per year they've appeared. In the AP analysis, they are alone in their own quadrant of the data grid.Not included in the study are teams that didn't make the tournament despite having one-and-done and other early-entry talent. Ben Simmons spent one year at LSU, and Markelle Fultz spent a season at Washington, but neither played in March Madness.On the other end of the spectrum, having NBA talent is no guarantee of success. Both Texas and Southern California have put more than a dozen early entry players into the league over the span of the study, but their victories-per-tournament average hovers around 1.And yet, the way the top programs have ensured consistent success, the analysis proves, is by repeatedly securing that kind of talent.But there's a chance everyone might have to recalibrate.With the NBA and its players' union considering changes that could end one-and-done, and possibly allow players to go to the NBA straight from high school — the way the system worked for decades before 2006 — Kentucky's path to success could be in peril."I don't know how it will play out, but we'll try to be first in whatever we're doing," Calipari said.It's not only the Wildcats who might need to adjust.Even programs like Michigan and UConn, which tend to keep players around longer, haven't shied away from the realities of college basketball in the 2000s: one-and-dones drastically improve teams' outlooks, like it or not."We've never said we're not going to take a one-and-done guy," said Wolverines coach John Beilein, who leads a program that, in many ways, wrote the first chapter of the book on modern basketball when the Fab Five came through in the early 1990s. "But at the same time, we're going to be very open with a young man, that if you're coming, this is a destination. This is not a stopover."Over the three decades the AP studied, Michigan averaged 2.375 wins in each of its 16 NCAA Tournament appearances, while sending 16 players early to the NBA.Like Beilein — and unlike Calipari — Duke's Mike Krzyzewski is nowhere near as outspoken about embracing his school's role as a place where the most talented players are welcome to camp out for a year before heading to the NBA.In 2015, the Blue Devils won the title with two freshmen (Jahlil Okafor and Justise Winslow) who left to become lottery picks. This year, the Blue Devils have three potential one-and-dones in Zion Williamson, Cam Reddish and RJ Barrett.They came up 1 point short of the Final Four — agonizing, for sure, but hardly an indictment of a formula that has worked for decades.It's a formula more schools would like to get their hands on."We don't shy away from that," said Beard, who led Texas Tech to its first Final Four this year. "Our goal is to have a team at Texas Tech one day where every guy on the team is an NBA player. No doubt about it, to play on this stage, you have to have pros, and you've got to evaluate and recruit and develop them."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The plains of West Texas are a long way from the bustling piazzas and porticos of northern Italy, where Davide Moretti was raised in a soccer culture and basketball was just a niche.But NBA fans in Italy can now look to the likes of Danilo Gallinari and his 20-point scoring average for the Los Angeles Clippers in a league that has made major strides in Europe since Moretti was born in Bologna 21 years ago.The college game, however, has been a decidedly foreign concept overseas, though, with the term March Madness likely to elicit strange looks even if correctly translated.Well, there's hardly been an NCAA championship with more of a global presence than this one, with Moretti's Texas Tech Red Raiders facing the Virginia Cavaliers in the title game Monday night. Eight players are from other countries.Moretti, the sophomore starting guard for Texas Tech , once played on an Italian junior national team with Virginia forward Francesco Badocchi, who has redshirted his first season."We're the first Italian guys who have ever made it to the Final Four," Moretti said, "so it's kind of a big-time thing right now back in Italy for basketball."According to data calculated by digital content producer Hero Sports, of the 1,036 players in this year's NCAA Tournament, 117 listed a home country other than the United States. Canada (23) contributed the most, followed by Australia (14). Seventeen other countries produced at least two players, including seven from African nations.For an American kid, a shooting session in the driveway after dinner could naturally include a singing of "One Shining Moment" and an idyllic vision of cutting down the nets at the national championship game. Not so much in other countries, where the presence of soccer and the significant time zone difference have long been more than enough to keep college basketball in the dark."When the games are on, it's usually when we're at school and stuff like that so we don't get to watch it because we're doing other things," said Kody Stattmann, another Virginia redshirt and a native of Australia.Starting forward Mamadi Diakite, whose buzzer-beating shot sent the Cavaliers to overtime in the Elite Eight where they outlasted Purdue, has become a national hero in Guinea. In Africa, though, his family and friends have to settle for watching replays."The day after the game, I get texts about it," Diakite said.For many of these international players, then, the desire to drape a gold, silver or bronze medal around their neck can be a bigger goal than winning an NCAA title with their college teams, as exhilarating as that can be."Playing in an Olympics is something that everybody dreams of," said Moretti, who will try to make the Italian national team for the FIBA World Cup this summer.Moretti played on junior teams in European and world championships, burnishing his credentials as one of the top international prospects before choosing Texas Tech over Indiana, Connecticut and Utah.Badocchi moved to the U.S. earlier to further develop his game in high school in Kansas, his mother's home state. Her work in the fashion industry brought her to Milan, where she met Badocchi's father."Since my family was from Kansas, I knew about KU, but I didn't really watch March Madness or anything like that," Badocchi said. "Even coming to Virginia, I knew it was a very good school, but I didn't really know anything about the ACC or anything."The ACC is quite the challenge, of course, and the Cavaliers have recently cracked the conference elite with Duke and North Carolina under coach Tony Bennett. Perhaps one of the ways they'll be able to stay there for the long term is with these international pipelines that have not only opened with new talent source but created stronger chemistry off the court."You learn to appreciate and respect one another," Bennett said.Also playing for the Cavaliers is fifth-year senior center Jack Salt of New Zealand. Another redshirt, center Francisco Caffaro, is from Argentina. Freshman guard Kihei Clark is from California but has a Filipino mother. Diakite, a fourth-year junior, recalled having to use his smartphone to translate words in some of his earlier conversations with teammates."At first, I think it's very hard if I were from here to accept someone to take someone from somewhere else that doesn't speak my language. I'd have to buy in a lot of time to talk to them," Diakite said. "But for them, being able to take their time and talk to me so I could be on the same layer as them is tremendous. Everyone has done such a good job of taking me in the circle."Texas Tech will add two more international big men to the roster next season: Russel Tchewa from Cameroon and Andrei Savrasov of Russia. In addition to Moretti, there's fifth-year senior guard Brandone Francis (Dominican Republic) and freshman forward Josh Mballa (France)."We try to be a family for these guys because they come here far away from home. That's what I did for the other guys who did to me, which was such a great thing for me because I felt like I wasn't alone," Moretti said.Yes, it's hard not to find a friend in West Texas."Everything is bigger. Everything is wider," Moretti said. "It's just a different culture. I like it. It's my home. The people are so nice. I live in the gym basically, but when I step out of the gym the people are so nice."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeHorse racing is among America’s oldest sports and perhaps the only one ever run out of the White House: Andrew Jackson operated a stable there during his presidency. Yet the multibillion-dollar industry is reeling as the Kentucky Derby approaches, with the death of yet another thoroughbred at the premier Santa Anita Park in California amplifying anxiety over whether the sport will continue in the state.On Sunday, a gelding named Arms Runner fell during a race, sustaining a catastrophic injury to its right front leg that required the horse to be euthanized. It was the 23rd equine fatality since Dec. 26, and it came on only the third day of racing at the track since it had halted competition on March 5.“I’m concerned about the publicity we’ve been getting,” said Bob Baffert, the Hall of Fame trainer who won the Triple Crown  with American Pharoah in 2015 and with Justify last year. “This is our March Madness. But we’re having the wrong kind of madness. We feel like we’re all under the gun. We should be under the gun. You can’t defend a horse getting hurt.”The track, in Arcadia, Calif., northeast of Los Angeles, had been closed to study why it had become so deadly, as well as to begin putting in place aggressive, wide-ranging drug and safety protocols. The spike was startling considering that in 2017, there were 20 deaths in a total of 8,463 starts over a span of 122 racing days at Santa Anita, according to Jockey Club data.The racetrack, however, will remain open after the most recent fatality and on Saturday will host one of its signature races, the Santa Anita Derby, an important steppingstone for 3-year-old horses hoping to line up for the Kentucky Derby on May 4.“We know what the stakes are and understand that we might be the place that kills horse racing in California,” said Tim Ritvo, chief operating officer of the Stronach Group, which owns the track. “Yes, we are worried, but we are confident that the track is safe and have gone the extra mile on rules that put us more in line with the rest of the world. We got to keep our doors open.”The horse deaths have become a rallying point for the animal rights movement, which is particularly strong in California, where it would take 600,000 signatures on a petition to prompt a ballot initiative on whether horse racing should continue to exist. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has asked Gov. Gavin Newsom to form an independent panel to investigate how the track, breeders, owners, trainers, jockeys and veterinarians treat the horses.“The veterinarians and trainers and track have not done all that they can to protect the horses,” said Kathy Guillermo, a PETA vice president.Representative Judy Chu, Democrat of California, wants Congress to examine the racetrack, which is in her district, and the sport in general. The Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office has already begun an investigation.But the uproar resonates far beyond California. With nearly $12 billion bet annually at North American racetracks and more than a $1 billion generated in breeding sheds and sales auctions, a ban on thoroughbred racing, or even a serious blow to the sport, could put tens of thousands of people out of work.“I think it’s pretty depressing and fraught with danger for the sport,” said Stuart Janney III, the chairman of the Jockey Club and a breeder and owner of the 2013 Kentucky Derby champion, Orb. “But I also think it is the valley we have to pass through to get to a better place. We can’t let these tragedies be in vain.”There has been plenty of recrimination. Trainers and owners have accused Ritvo and the Stronach Group of cutting costs and prodding them to run their horses more often so there will be fuller fields and more revenue.The Stronach Group recently established restrictions on medications and a ban on whips, moves implying that blame rested on trainers and owners for unsavory practices in the pursuit of purse money. The restrictions include banning the use of Lasix, a diuretic that is used to stop pulmonary bleeding but that has also been found to enhance performance, and increasing the limits on legal therapeutic anti-inflammatories, joint injections, shock wave therapy and anabolic steroids.“Maybe we are where we are because racing has become too much of a business and not enough of a sport,” Ritvo said.No one expects the scrutiny to let up. The Louisville Courier-Journal last week proclaimed Churchill Downs, the home of the Kentucky Derby, one of the “deadliest racetracks in America.” The newspaper reported that the track had lost 43 thoroughbreds to racing injuries since 2016, an average of 2.42 per 1,000 starts, which was 50 percent higher than the national average during the same span.The Jockey Club’s Janney said the sport needed to break free of some of its history in order survive.For decades, horse racing has experienced spikes in fatalities without adopting significant changes. The Horseracing Integrity Act of 2019 was introduced in Congress last month by Representatives Paul Tonko, Democrat of New York, and Andy Barr, Republican of Kentucky. The bill would create a private, independent authority responsible for developing and administering a nationwide antidoping and medication control program for horse racing.“I think it has a better chance to pass today,” Janney said. “Every sport, every industry, has to change with the times. This is a scary time, but every undertaking is a result of getting a glimpse at the downside of staying where you are.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the date of this year’s Kentucky Derby. It is May 4, not May 2.Follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrape.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCollege sports do have some upsides. But their sheer scale is silly.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.At 11:15 a.m. local time in Des Moines this morning, March Madness will begin in earnest. The men’s basketball teams from the University of Minnesota and the University of Louisville will be playing each other. It will be the first of 16 games today, and another 80 men’s or women’s games will take place over the next several days.In a couple of recent newsletters, I’ve written about the downsides of college sports, and there are some big ones. Today, I want to talk about some upsides — and about how college sports might be able to achieve a better balance.I assume that many of you have filled out March Madness brackets with your friends, family or colleagues. Those brackets give you an excuse to have some fun together. Some of you are also fortunate enough to have a big rooting interest in one of the teams still playing. Maybe you’ll watch a game together or exchange nervous texts in a game’s final moments. Maybe you’ll end up jumping around your house in joy at some point in the next couple weeks with your kids or siblings.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]College sports bring people a lot of joy. As one of my college roommates texted me last week, as a way of objecting to my recent criticism of sports, “I’m happier when our basketball team is good.” He’s got a point. Sports create shared experiences in a way that few other activities in this country do.This communal function means that colleges have a good reason to treat some athletes differently from most other applicants. Yes, the colleges should make sure they’re admitting only athletes with the academic preparation to graduate. But I understand why the basketball players representing the University of Minnesota today don’t necessarily need the same academic qualifications as the student oboists or journalists at Minnesota. Those athletes bring something to the campus that few other students can.‘Why in the world?’But it’s important to remember something else. Most college sports don’t look anything like basketball. They don’t bring a lot of people together. Their crowds are small. They don’t have many spillover benefits for the other parts of a university. They exist largely for the benefit of the athletes themselves — which makes them not so different from many other extracurricular activities.And these other sports are often disproportionately played by white, relatively well-off students. They don’t add much diversity to a campus. Only 4 percent of male college lacrosse players are black, as Justin Wolfers of the University of Michigan has noted. Only 5 percent of fencers are. In golf, the share is 2 percent. In water polo, it’s 1 percent.Yet colleges treat athletes in these sports as an entirely different species of applicant. The athletes don’t need to have nearly as strong applications as other students.Because so many of these sports exist, the share of athletes at some colleges is shockingly high. “Roughly 20 percent, or one-fifth, of the entering class at the Ivy League universities and the leading small liberal arts colleges are recruited athletes,” Jonathan Cole, a top former official at Columbia University (and, before that, a college athlete), has written. “Why in the world are the schools using up 20 percent of their slots on recruited athletes?” The answer, Cole explains, is that sports have become a kind of arms race.(In a recent newsletter, I mentioned that about one in five students at Williams College, in western Massachusetts, was an athlete, according to an outside estimate. That turns out to be wrong — and too conservative. Williams is on the high end of the distribution, with about 30 percent of students being recruited athletes, according to the college.)Cole is right that this situation doesn’t make any sense. I am fully aware that fencers, golfers, water polo players and other athletes work extremely hard. But so do many other students who participate in other extracurricular activities and have superior academic records. Those other students are often rejected to make room for the athletes. The problem is the special treatment that so many athletes are receiving.In a better system, most colleges would substantially shrink the number of athletes they recruit. Each would keep a modest number of sports — split equally between men and women — for which they would recruit athletes and still give huge admissions bonuses. These wouldn’t be the only teams that colleges fielded. But the other sports would follow a classic scholar-athlete model. The members of the teams would no longer receive extra-special treatment in the admissions process. They would be students who happened to be athletes. And they would compete with other teams filled with similar athletes.Is any college brave enough to move in this direction?RelatedOn this week’s episode of “The Argument” podcast, we talk about what a better college admissions system could look like. We also debate whether President Trump is helping to cause white-nationalist violence.I realize I haven’t dug into the debate over whether college athletes should be paid here. If you want to, read Nancy Skinner, a California state senator, making the case in favor and the journalist Jemele Hill or Cody McDavis, a former college basketball player, making the case against.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleWhat do you know about the world of horse racing? Have you been to a horse race or watched one on TV? If yes, do you have a favorite horse or race?Did you know that horsing was once one of the most popular sports in America and nearly every newspaper had a horse racing page? In fact, three horses (Secretariat, Man o’ War and Citation) and two jockeys (Willie Shoemaker and Eddie Arcaro) were included in ESPN’s 100 greatest athletes of the 20th century.While the sport’s popularity has declined in recent years, nearly $12 billion is bet annually at North American racetracks, and the Dubai World Cup has a winner’s purse of $12 million.Late last month, a horse was euthanized after a terrible fall during a race at Santa Anita Park in California — the 23rd death there in just over three months, igniting a longstanding debate:Is horse racing ethical?In “Death of Another Horse at Santa Anita Rocks the Racing Industry,” Joe Drape writes:Horse racing is among America’s oldest sports and perhaps the only one ever run out of the White House: Andrew Jackson operated a stable there during his presidency. Yet the multibillion-dollar industry is reeling as the Kentucky Derby approaches, with the death of yet another thoroughbred at the premier Santa Anita Park in California amplifying anxiety over whether the sport will continue in the state.On Sunday, a gelding named Arms Runner fell during a race, sustaining a catastrophic injury to its right front leg that required the horse to be euthanized. It was the 23rd equine fatality since Dec. 26, and it came on only the third day of racing at the track since it had halted competition on March 5.“I’m concerned about the publicity we’ve been getting,” said Bob Baffert, the Hall of Fame trainer who won the Triple Crown with American Pharoah in 2015 and with Justify last year. “This is our March Madness. But we’re having the wrong kind of madness. We feel like we’re all under the gun. We should be under the gun. You can’t defend a horse getting hurt.”The track, in Arcadia, Calif., northeast of Los Angeles, had been closed to study why it had become so deadly, as well as to begin putting in place aggressive, wide-ranging drug and safety protocols. The spike was startling considering that in 2017, there were 20 deaths in a total of 8,463 starts over a span of 122 racing days at Santa Anita, according to Jockey Club data.The racetrack, however, will remain open after the most recent fatality and on Saturday will host one of its signature races, the Santa Anita Derby, an important steppingstone for 3-year-old horses hoping to line up for the Kentucky Derby on May 4.“We know what the stakes are and understand that we might be the place that kills horse racing in California,” said Tim Ritvo, chief operating officer of the Stronach Group, which owns the track. “Yes, we are worried, but we are confident that the track is safe and have gone the extra mile on rules that put us more in line with the rest of the world. We got to keep our doors open.”The horse deaths have become a rallying point for the animal rights movement, which is particularly strong in California, where it would take 600,000 signatures on a petition to prompt a ballot initiative on whether horse racing should continue to exist. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has asked Gov. Gavin Newsom to form an independent panel to investigate how the track, breeders, owners, trainers, jockeys and veterinarians treat the horses.“The veterinarians and trainers and track have not done all that they can to protect the horses,” said Kathy Guillermo, a PETA vice president.The article concludes:For decades, horse racing has experienced spikes in fatalities without adopting significant changes. The Horseracing Integrity Act of 2019 was introduced in Congress last month by Representatives Paul Tonko, Democrat of New York, and Andy Barr, Republican of Kentucky. The bill would create a private, independent authority responsible for developing and administering a nationwide antidoping and medication control program for horse racing.“I think it has a better chance to pass today,” Janney said. “Every sport, every industry, has to change with the times. This is a scary time, but every undertaking is a result of getting a glimpse at the downside of staying where you are.”Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Is horse racing ethical? Make the case for or against the morality of the sport.— What is your relationship to horses? Have you ever ridden or cared for a horse? How does your experience affect your views on the sport of horse racing?— In a related article, Lord Teddy Grimthorpe, the owner of Enable, who was named the European Horse of the Year for 2017, said:All the good trainers will tell you that a horse has to have certain levels of athletic ability. There is no question of that, but I think the real X-factor is having the mind to actually want to do it and having that joy of wanting to gallop. Enable does. She wants to be out, and she wants to be running. That’s her natural way. She doesn’t like being left in the stable.What is your reaction to Lord Grimthorpe’s statement? Do you think it can be said that a horse enjoys its role as a racehorse?— What do you think could make the sport safer? If you believe horse racing is unethical or should be banned entirely, what do you think about the use of animals in other sports like rodeos or bull fighting?— Are you a fan of horse racing? Have the recent deaths at Santa Anita Park changed your views? Will you watch the Kentucky Derby next month?Further Resources:Should Circuses Be Animal Free?O.K., Ban Racing … But Then What?How to Save the American RacehorseStudents 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementFor true madness, see the N.A.I.A. basketball tournament in Kansas City.The mascot for the Kansas City Comets soccer team coming in to entertain fans during one of the short breaks between N.A.I.A. tournament games.CreditCreditChristopher Smith for The New York TimesSupported byBy David WaldsteinKANSAS CITY, Mo. — One by one, the teams marched onto the court, lining up in rows until they had filled half the floor from baseline to midcourt, roughly 500 men’s college basketball players, coaches and team managers standing shoulder to shoulder.The unusual display of hoops humanity is known as the Parade of Champions, and it is a signature moment at the annual N.A.I.A. Basketball Championship, one of the wildest events in college sports.Many call the more popular — and more lucrative — 68-team N.C.A.A. basketball tournament “madness.” But compared with the N.A.I.A. event, that is just a three-week, 14-city corporate show. The N.A.I.A.’s version is truly nuts: 32 teams, seven days and one shared hotel. It is a virtual assembly line of college basketball, and for the true hoops fanatic it is basketball paradise.“This is the real March Madness,” Larry Cordaro, the coach of Louisiana State-Alexandria, said during a busy breakfast on Thursday at Kansas City’s Westin hotel, where all 32 teams were billeted. “It’s a really special time.”It was a little after 9 a.m. when Cordaro spoke, on the tournament’s second day, and already there was a game in progress at the nearby Municipal Auditorium, the venerable Art Deco treasure that housed the first National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics tournament in 1937. That was a year before the first N.I.T. and two years before the N.C.A.A. held its inaugural event.The N.A.I.A. long ago surrendered its primacy in college basketball, and it now exists beyond the N.C.A.A.’s three divisions, as a sort of fourth tier in college sports, a collection of small colleges and directional schools with names like Peru State, Central Methodist and Our Lady of the Lake. (It’s in Texas.) But even with its reduced stature, the N.A.I.A.’s annual tournament remains something special.Thursday’s first game, like all the rest, was live-streamed back to the Westin’s lobby, and about 20 players and coaches from various teams paused to watch before or after their breakfasts. A few feet away in a corner of the restaurant, Cordaro, whose Generals won their first-round game the day before, wolfed down a plate of eggs as he negotiated with the headwaiter for a time slot to feed his team.With 450 players filtering through each morning, “I’m just fighting to get breakfast time,” Cordaro said.Court time can be even harder to arrange. In the event’s hectic first three days, there are 24 games with breaks of only 10 minutes between each, and no one can practice in the arena. That makes court time so precious that some teams do their layup drills during the 10-minute halftimes of the games that precede their own, a delicate dance that sometimes creates a logjam of four teams on the court at once — two walking off and two more coming back on.On Wednesday, the first day of the event, the games stretched over almost 16 hours, from the first tip at 9 a.m. to the last buzzer at almost 1 a.m. Thursday. Cordaro’s team, which drove 13 hours from Louisiana crammed into a single minibus, won despite seeing one of its best players, the dynamic forward Brandon Moss, miss a circus dunk attempt (he tried to rock the baby first) on a breakaway with five minutes left in a two-possession game. Cordaro, not for the first time, was left shaking his head.The N.A.I.A. currently consists of 94 mostly small colleges and universities, many with enrollments under 2,000 students (its women’s basketball tournament is held concurrently in Billings, Mont.). The teams display a wide variety of playing styles, ranging from conservative and disciplined teams to more freewheeling programs with something closer to a playground ethos.During warm-ups before their first game, for example, some of the Louisiana State-Alexandria players worked on half-court shots. At the other end of the court, players from Idaho’s Lewis-Clark State practiced — and missed — several wild dunk attempts, the balls careening high into the air.One of the most famous dunks in basketball history — Darryl Dawkins’s glass-shattering slam for the Philadelphia 76ers against the Kansas City Kings — happened at this 10,000-seat downtown arena in 1979, so dunking is a tradition here. The coaches did not seem fazed by the misses, but the N.A.I.A. tournament is more about the players than the coaches, anyway, and most are brimming with confidence.“I’m the best shooter in the country,” L.S.U.-Shreveport guard Benjamin Batts declared in the driveway of the Westin, a boast that willfully ignored the fact that he does not have the best shooting percentage on his team. Batts, a transfer from Texas Wesleyan, the defending N.A.I.A. champion, said his favorite part of the tournament was watching everyone else go home.“It can get kind of awkward in the elevator when you’re riding with someone from the team you just beat,” he said. “You know, awkward for them. Not me.”The high scorer in the first round was the senior guard Ryan Imhoff of Montana’s Carroll College; his 30 points led the Saints over Lindsey Wilson College of Kentucky. A chemistry major, Imhoff may have the talent to play overseas professionally, but his ultimate goal, he said, is to be a pharmaceutical researcher, a career that will require a Ph.D.“Study and play basketball, that’s all I do,” he said as he prepared for Carroll’s next game. “There’s no downtime.”Imhoff attended Napa High School in California, and his team is among those made up mostly of players who came straight from high school. Others are stacked with transfers from other N.A.I.A. programs or junior colleges and the occasional N.C.A.A. Division I castoff.A few players are on second or third chances, and some didn’t even make it to this year’s tournament. Hope International University, from Fullerton, Calif., left two players behind for unspecified disciplinary reasons when it set out for Kansas City, and then sent a third home before its first-round game. Not surprisingly, Hope lost that game to Our Lady of the Lake.The tournament was started in 1937 by basketball’s inventor, James Naismith, and others, when the N.A.I.A. was known as the National Association of Intercollegiate Basketball. This year is the 70th anniversary of Clarence Walker’s becoming was the first black player to appear in a national association’s postseason college basketball tournament. His coach at Indiana State, John Wooden, had declined an invitation to the tournament a year earlier because the event did not allow black players. When the N.A.I.B. changed its discriminatory policy in time for the 1948 event, Wooden and Indiana State came — and finished second.Today’s N.A.I.A. players might not be as big or as talented as many of their N.C.A.A. counterparts playing on bigger stages this week, but they celebrate buzzer-beating shots with the same raucous pileups as N.C.A.A. teams do, and suffer the losses just as hard. By 10:30 a.m. of the first day, three players from William Carey of Mississippi, which lost to Georgia’s Life University by a point in the tournament’s first game, were sobbing on court.“That 9 a.m. game is a real challenge,” said Bob Burchard, the coach of Columbia College in Missouri, which lost its first-round game to Campbellsville of Kentucky on Thursday afternoon.Burchard has coached at Columbia for 30 years, and he has the most wins of any current N.A.I.A. coach: 774. He has been coming to the tournament since the mid-1980s, when he was an assistant at Missouri Western State College. One year, he said, he watched in awe as a galloping coil of energy named Dennis Rodman scored 46 points and grabbed 32 rebounds in a game for Southeastern Oklahoma State.“I drove back to campus and found our big man,” Burchard said. “I told him, ‘You’ve got to come back with me and watch this guy.’”Rodman, who would become one of the best rebounders and defenders in basketball history, is one of several players who went from the N.A.I.A. to the N.B.A., including Willis Reed (Grambling), Earl Monroe (Winston-Salem), Jack Sikma (Illinois Wesleyan), Terry Porter (Wisconsin-Stevens Point) and Scottie Pippen (Central Arkansas).But the best N.A.I.A. tournament player ever, many regular attendees contend, was a sharpshooter from Kentucky State, Travis Grant.Grant, who led Kentucky State to three straight titles in the early 1970s, still holds the record for most points in a game (60, against Minot State in 1972), most points in one tournament (213) and most career points (518).“They called him ‘Machine Gun’ Grant, and boy could he shoot,” said Mike Amer, a 65-year-old retired printer and an N.A.I.A. devotee.Amer, who lives in Odessa, Mo., about a 45-minute drive from Municipal Auditorium, has been attending the tournament since 1968, buying the single ticket — about $100 now — that allows him to attend all 31 games. He builds vacations around the tournament, and even went when it was held in Tulsa, Okla., from 1994 to 2001, the only time in 81 years that the event was outside Kansas City.Amer’s favorite day is Friday, when eight games determine the quarterfinalists. And as the field shrinks, the lobby at the Westin and the crowds of players tumbling out of its elevators thin out, too.Burchard, the Columbia College coach, said one of the keys to a long run was avoiding sharing a hotel floor with a team that had been eliminated, since those players no longer worried about curfew and might make a ruckus.It still amuses Burchard when powerhouse N.C.A.A. programs prepare for games by sequestering their players in separate hotels, far away from their competitors and their fans.He prefers his week to play out just like the Parade of Champions: 500 players and coaches jammed into one place, for one very special week.“In the N.A.I.A.,” he said, “we’re all in this together.”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly the historical significance of Clarence Walker’s appearance in the 1948 N.A.I.B. tournament. He was the first black player to appear in a national association’s postseason basketball tournament; Walker did not break the color barrier for “all college basketball tournaments.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer VineyardWatching is the TV and film recommendation website of The New York Times. Sign up for our twice-weekly newsletter here.March doesn’t just bring madness — it also brings new streaming selections. Below are the most interesting of what we’ve found among the new TV series and movies coming to the major streaming services this month, along with roundups of the best new titles in all genres. (Streaming services occasionally change schedules without notice.)‘After Life’ Starts streaming: March 8Ricky Gervais’s new series, which he also wrote and directed, isn’t quite a comedy. Over the course of six half-hour episodes his character Tony, a widower who has recently lost his wife to breast cancer, abuses everyone he encounters in his small fictional English town. Tony no longer sees a need to pretend to be friendly to anyone or feign interest in anything, and while his insults and put-downs are amusing, his regular threats of suicide are less so. He’s a man who has given up on life, but life keeps drawing him back in. (A local widow played by Penelope Wilton sees behind his veneer of misery.) The show is a tough watch at times but Gervais holds our attention throughout.‘Triple Frontier’ Starts streaming: March 13Oscar Isaac is so convincing in the role of an intensely charismatic leader that it makes perfect sense that a group of ex-Special Forces veterans (Ben Affleck, Pedro Pascal, Charlie Hunnam, Garrett Hedlund) would happily team up with him for a mission that is not government sanctioned, and, more important, could be suicidal. The plan? To rip off and murder a South American drug lord in his own home. It’s a heist film with stunning locations and ingenious caper techniques. Plus it affords an excellent opportunity to scream at Ben Affleck when his character makes idiotic mistakes.‘Turn Up Charlie’ Season 1 Starts streaming: March 15Surprised to learn that the actor Idris Elba is playing this year’s Coachella lineup? Don’t be: Elba moonlights as a DJ, and has played festivals and clubs around the world. And now he’s playing one on TV, in this new half-hour series about a washed-up DJ named Charlie who is striving for a comeback. Charlie gets a career boost when his more successful best friend requests help with looking after his precocious tweenage daughter Gabby (an adorable Frankie Hervey). The gig has some major perks, chief among them access to his friend’s in-home recording studio. Elba and Hervey have great freewheeling chemistry, and their affectionate bond is the show’s sweet, gooey heart. Bonus attraction: watching Elba show off his skills behind the DJ decks.‘Amy Schumer Growing’ Starts streaming: March 19Amy Schumer recently had to cancel the remaining dates of her latest comedy tour because of pregnancy complications, and anyone wanting to know more about that can now hear in considerable detail. In her latest stand-up special, Schumer explains all about hyperemesis gravidarum, a knockout punch of extreme nausea and vomiting that’s had her against the ropes for months. (“I throw up an ‘Exorcist’-amount every day,” she says.) The silver uterine lining of it all is her maternal trials have given her some great new material to work with: stories about how her husband, who is on the autism spectrum, has dealt with her multiple hospitalizations and why she was arrested while protesting Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation to the Supreme Court. And you should really hear her solution to the problem of unsolicited sexting — it’s pretty certain to shut that nonsense down.Also arriving: “Apollo 13” (March 1), “The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind” (March 1), “A Clockwork Orange” (March 1), “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon” (March 1), “Emma” (March 1), “The Hurt Locker” (March 1), “Junebug” (March 1), “Music and Lyrics” (March 1), “Nick and Norah’s Infinite Playlist” (March 1), “The Notebook” (March 1), “Stuart Little” (March 1), “Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street” (March 1), “Wet Hot American Summer” (March 1), “Winter’s Bone” (March 1), “Doubt” (March 7), “Blue Jasmine” (March 8), “Juanita” (March 8), “A Separation” (March 15), “Arrested Development” Season 5B (March 15), “Girl” (March 15), “Love, Death & Robots” Season 1 (March 15), “Queer Eye” Season 3 (March 15), “The Lives of Others” (March 15), “The Dirt” (March 22), “The OA” Part 2 (March 22), “Santa Clarita Diet” Season 3 (March 29) and “How to Get Away with Murder” Season 5 (March 30).‘Catastrophe’ Season 4   Starts streaming: March 15“Catastrophe” began with Sharon and Rob (played by the show’s creators Sharon Horgan and Rob Delaney) in a panicked state over an accidental pregnancy following a brief fling. As the show has progressed, the couple has grown into their relationship (more or less) and they are now the parents of two kids. They still experience moments of insecurity about the state of their union, and occasionally find themselves on the verge of ending it. (At one point Sharon asks Rob, “Were you unhappy the whole time?”) But in the show’s final season, this unlikely alliance enters a new, bittersweet phase, one in which we see that love and resentment can coexist, and hope and despair, too. The closing moment is as perfect (and perfectly ambiguous) as a series finale can get.‘Cold War’   Starts streaming: March 22The Polish director Pawel Pawlikowski’s Oscar-nominated film is an enchanting black-and-white drama about a tempestuous love affair set against the backdrop of the Cold War. Wiktor (Tomasz Kot), a pianist and composer, and Zula (Joanna Kulig), a singer, begin a romance as they tour Poland performing folk songs in service of communist propaganda; they are eventually separated, but over the course of a decade they continue to find a way back to one another, only to lose touch again. This is a haunting story in which silence does much of the speaking.‘Hanna’ Season 1 Starts streaming: March 29“If anyone asks, that girl does not exist,” says the federal agent Marissa (Mireille Enos), trying to preclude public awareness of this show’s titular teenage assassin. Based on Joe Wright’s 2011 film of the same name, this “Hanna” shares the same writer (David Farr, here the showrunner) and features the newcomer Esme Creed-Miles in the role originated by Saoirse Ronan and Joel Kinnaman as Hanna’s guardian/trainer. It’s nice to see Kinnaman and Enos together again (they co-starred in the AMC series “The Killing”) and to find that the show wisely swaps out some of the movie’s curious aesthetic choices (like the ethereal fairy tale motifs) in order to spend more time on character development, world-building and breathtaking action sequences.Also arriving: “The American” (March 1), “Boston Legal” Seasons 1-5 (March 1), “The Widow” Season 1 (March 1), “American Beauty” (March 1), “Big Night” (March 1), “The Chumscrubber” (March 1), “Deep Red” (“Profondo rosso”) (March 1), “Little House on the Prairie” Seasons 1-9 (March 1), “Nacho Libre” (March 1), “The Practice” Seasons 1-9 (March 1), “The Unit” Seasons 1-4 (March 1), “Tin Star” Season 2 (March 8) and “Colette” (March 12). ‘Leaving Neverland’ Parts 1 and 2Starts streaming: March 3It’s hard to say what is the most devastating thing about this four-hour documentary. It might be the graphic, horrifying allegations of child sexual abuse made by two men, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, against Michael Jackson. Or it could be the fact that Robson and Safechuck were still unable to emotionally process what they say occurred and speak out as young adults during the singer’s 2004-2005 criminal trial, when justice might have been meted out and other children protected. Just as with the “Surviving R. Kelly” series on Lifetime, the accusations themselves — furiously contested by Jackson’s estate — are not new. But the impact of survivors on camera sharing their painful recollections is. The difference now, perhaps, is that the public seems ready to listen.‘The Inventor: Out for Blood in Silicon Valley’Starts streaming: March 18“I don’t have many secrets,” Elizabeth Holmes claims near the start of Alex Gibney’s latest documentary. But that’s a lie, as was the entire basis for her now-defunct health care start-up Theranos, which claimed to offer a revolutionary approach to medical blood tests with an all-in-one testing device that supposedly required only a single drop of blood. Theranos was the Fyre Festival of Silicon Valley — an exercise in branding that promised the impossible and duped a lot of famous and influential people. But Gibney has no interest in laughing at the people who fell for the fraud; instead, the filmmaker seeks to dissect the conditions that made the scandal possible. Where was the due diligence? Why wasn’t patient safety the foremost concern? This is a cautionary tale with implications beyond the health care industry, and it’s necessary viewing.Also arriving: “Angela’s Ashes” (March 1), “The Client” (March 1), “Courage Under Fire” (March 1), “Date Night” (March 1), “The Devil Wears Prada” (March 1), “Despicable Me” (March 1), “Drugstore Cowboy” (March 1), “Green Zone” (March 1), “The Grudge” (March 1), “Love & Other Drugs” (March 1), “Paper Heart” (March 1), “Taps” (March 1), “Weekend at Bernie’s” (March 1), “Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom” (March 9), “The Case Against Adnan Syed” (March 10), “One Nation Under Stress” (March 25), “Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again” (March 30), “Barry” Season 2 Premiere (March 31) and “Veep” Season 7 Premiere (March 31).[Sign up for our “Game of Thrones” newsletter for a rewatch guide for the first seven seasons.]‘Shrill’ Season 1Starts streaming: March 15“Hello, I’m Fat,” writes the plus-size protagonist Annie in the headline of her online essay for a fictional Portland newspaper. Played with one-of-a-kind warmth by Aidy Bryant, Annie is a woman who has always felt compelled to apologize for her overweight existence, responding to casual body shaming with timid smiles and promises to do better. It’s a delight to watch as she comes to realize that life doesn’t have to be that way — anyone who wishes “Dietland” were still around should try this.Also arriving: “American Beauty” (March 1), “Batman Begins” (March 1), “Bruce Almighty” (March 1), “The Chumscrubber” (March 1), “The Cider House Rules” (March 1), “The Crying Game” (March 1), “The Dark Knight” (March 1), “Easy Rider” (March 1), “Edward Scissorhands” (March 1), “The French Lieutenant’s Woman” (March 1), “He Named Me Malala” (March 1), “The Ice Storm” (March 1), “Ironweed” (March 1), “JFK” (March 1), “Nacho Libre” (March 1), “Office Space” (March 1), “The Piano” (March 1), “The Pope of Greenwich Village” (March 1), “River’s Edge” (March 1), “Saved!” (March 1), “Toys” (March 1), “Witness” (March 1), “Suburbia” (March 7), “Shoplifters” (March 14), “Like Water for Chocolate” (March 15), “Wings of the Dove” (March 15), “Assassination Nation” (March 18) and “Girl Most Likely” (March 20).A picture with an earlier version of this article was published in error. The image was from the movie “Hanna,” starring Saoirse Ronan, not “Hanna,” the Amazon series starring Esme Creed-Miles, which is new to streaming in March.An earlier version of this article included “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj” Volume 2 in error. It premiered in February.An earlier version of this article misidentified Elizabeth Holmes as Elizabeth Theranos.An earlier version of this article misstated the premiere date of “Shrill.” It is March 15, not March 8.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.ATHENA FILM FESTIVAL at Barnard College (through March 3). This annual event showcases films that are mainly recent and broadly involve the theme of female leadership. Friday night’s screening of the Ruth Bader Ginsburg biopic “On the Basis of Sex” will be followed by a panel that includes Jane Ginsburg, the justice’s daughter, and Daniel Stiepleman, her nephew (and the film’s screenwriter). The festival will close with “Knock Down the House,” which was shown at the Sundance Film Festival in January. For this documentary, the director, Rachel Lears, trailed four women running in primaries for House seats in the 2018 election. She chose wisely: One of the candidates was Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who will be at the screening on Sunday night. It has sold out, but a rush line will form 45 minutes beforehand.athenafilmfestival.comCRAIG BALDWIN at the Metrograph (March 3-4). This experimental filmmaker will appear at the Metrograph for screenings of his movies, which typically use found footage and create paranoia- and science-fiction-tinged fringe takes on history. (Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott likened his “Spectres of the Spectrum,” showing on Sunday, to “a 90-minute compendium of conspiracy theories, propounded more or less in earnest and with great urgency.”) The lineup even features some “custom-cut” remixes. Separately, Light Industry, in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, will host an evening with Baldwin on Wednesday. 212-660-0312, metrograph.comFORBIDDEN FRUIT: THE GOLDEN AGE OF THE EXPLOITATION PICTURE at Film Forum (March 1-30). Exploitation films didn’t begin with the grindhouse era. This monthlong series celebrates — in incongruously good-looking restorations — films of the 1930s and ’40s that bucked the Production Code by feigning an educational pretext, Bret Wood, the curator of the program, told The New York Times in 1999. These movies had titles like “Marihuana: Weed With Roots in Hell” (on March 8) and “Sex Madness” (on March 16). Wood, who co-authored a book on the subject, will introduce this weekend’s screenings, starting with “Narcotic” (on Friday), a 1933 feature that Film Forum is calling an “almost avant-garde treatise on opium addiction.” 212-727-8110, filmforum.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]WILLIAM FOX PRESENTS: MORE RESTORATIONS AND REDISCOVERIES FROM THE FOX FILM CORPORATION at the Museum of Modern Art (March 1-26). Last year’s series on William Fox offered a sampling of the innovation that the studio head brought to Fox Film — a fostering of artistry that persisted even after he was forced from control of the company in 1930. This sequel retrospective has “Street Angel” (on Friday and March 24), which reunited the director Frank Borzage and the actress Janet Gaynor after their hit “7th Heaven,” along with a whopping nine films from John Ford and “Hello, Sister!” (on Sunday and March 16), mostly directed by Erich von Stroheim. 212-708-9400, moma.orgBEN HECHT: FIGHTING WORDS, MOVING PICTURES at the Museum of the Moving Image (March 1-3). A secret screenwriting weapon for Alfred Hitchcock (“Notorious,” on Friday), Josef von Sternberg (the silent-era gangland picture “Underworld,” on Saturday) and Howard Hawks (“Twentieth Century,” on Sunday), Hecht also paid his dues as a newspaperman — the kind he immortalized (with Charles MacArthur) in “The Front Page.” Perhaps the least well-known movies in this retrospective, timed to the release of a new biography on Hecht by Adina Hoffman, are two films Hecht and MacArthur not only wrote but also directed together, “Crime Without Passion” and “The Scoundrel,” showing as a doubleheader on Saturday. Both were filmed at the studio where the museum now sits. 718-784-0077, movingimage.usRENDEZ-VOUS WITH FRENCH CINEMA at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (through March 10). Francophiles, unite: The Film Society’s annual blockbuster series is offering a chance to catch up with nominees from the Césars (the French Oscars, just held on Feb. 22), like “Amanda” (on Saturday and March 9) and “Sink or Swim” (on Saturday and Monday), as well as “Girls of the Sun” (on Friday and Sunday), a 2018 Cannes competition selection that stars Golshifteh Farahani as the leader of a band of Kurdish female fighters and Emmanuelle Bercot as a war correspondent. Those with more auteurist inclinations will want to seek out “Maya” (on Wednesday and Thursday), from Mia Hansen-Love. It is also about a war-zone journalist, but in this case one who takes a sojourn in India to escape the violence. Bruno Dumont’s “Coincoin and the Extra-Humans” (on Sunday) is a sequel to his “Li’l Quinquin,” a murder mystery that combined his brutal worldview with top notes of Peter Sellers and Jerry Lewis. 212-875-5601, filmlinc.orgAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFrugal TravelerEveryone knows off-season is the cheapest time to travel, but who wants lousy weather? A month-to-month guide to when and where to book to save money. By Elaine GlusacIn Las Vegas, hotel room rates seem to shift like rolling dice. Sometimes you win and get a $199 rate in March at the Bellagio resort, and sometimes —including over St. Patrick’s Day weekend (this year from March 15 to 17) — you’ll pay $429.Traffic in Las Vegas spikes over holidays like Chinese New Year, and events like the N.C.A.A. March Madness basketball tournament (March 19 to April 8). Add in 22,000 annual meetings that may draw as many as 175,000 attendees to a town with 150,000 hotel rooms, and you have a case study in travel economics: With crowds come higher prices. Conversely, fewer people often means lower prices. “If you’re flexible with your dates, you can get so much more bang for your buck,” said Yves Marceau, the vice president of product at G Adventures, a tour company where spring itineraries to Europe, for example, can save 20 percent or more over summer trips.Rather than strictly traveling in the off-season, when savings can be greatest but weather is often at its worst, the trick is to find soft periods in times of stronger demand. Cheaper travel varies widely by destination, but there are a few general guidelines to follow while planning. In addition to checking convention traffic (Las Vegas lists its meetings at vegasmeansbusiness.com), look for holidays in a foreign destination and probe airline booking calendars for soft travel days. Search engines like Kayak indicate “good days to travel,” meaning bargain days, and the airfare prediction app Hopper shows a calendar color-coded to pricing.While not comprehensive, the following month-by-month list provides information on deals in popular global destinations, and a few cautionary flags.Spring is the time to head to Europe for culture without the crowds. Airfare is about 20 percent cheaper in March, April and May, versus June, July and August, according to Hopper. Those savings in 2018 ran between $160 and $210 a ticket.Among beach destinations, try Bali the last three weeks of March after Nyepi (the Day of Silence), which takes place March 7. “Bali is one of those places that’s pretty constant temperature wise because it’s near the equator,” said Sandy Staples, the president of Artistico Travel Consultants, a Folsom, Calif.-based travel agency in the Virtuoso network. “In March, some of the hotels are 50 percent off what they are in July and August.”Spring in Alaska offers early wildlife-watching opportunities as animals emerge from hibernation and whales return. This year, two small-ship cruise lines, UnCruise and Alaskan Dream Cruises, are introducing new sailings that start as early as April and highlight the season of gushing waterfalls. UnCruise begins its itineraries on April 6 with a seven-night sailing between Juneau and Sitka starting at $2,995 a person. In July, a similar sailing starts at $4,495.Tip: In Latin America and Christian religious sites like Rome, Semana Santa, or Holy Week, can clog not just the week of Easter but the week prior, and you can expect higher prices.Orlando receives 72 million visitors throughout the year. High season coincides with school breaks, including spring break, summer vacation and the winter holidays. But the window after spring break in late April until Memorial Day, there’s a slight dip. Disney’s Animal Kingdom Lodge, for example, has rooms at 25 percent off during this period (it also has a similar sale for summer if booked by March 24). A recent search on Travelocity showed weekend rates at the Hilton Orlando at $146 in May versus $221 a month later.Tip: Japan during Golden Week, generally the first week of May (April 29 through May 6), is a vacation period that is expected to be particularly busy this year as a new emperor takes the throne.Normally pricey, Aspen, Colo., is a relative steal in early June, when the mountains are green again, and occupancy is at 57 percent. The Limelight Aspen hotel has rooms from $225, versus over $400 in summer. Visit before the annual Food & Wine Classic in Aspen, which takes place in mid-June, and the Aspen Ideas Festival, June 20 to 29. In the Caribbean, the hurricane season runs June 1 to Nov. 30, with the heaviest storm activity historically taking place in September, according to the National Hurricane Center. If you can handle the heat, the calm of early summer brings both deals and good visibility for snorkeling and diving. June and November are both relatively inexpensive. A recent check at Montpelier Plantation & Beach on Nevis found rooms in June at $235 versus $675 in February.In the United States, the July 4 holiday is a busy time to travel and a lousy time to look for deals. But just on the other side of it, there’s a relative lull in a few unexpected places, including Lake Tahoe, Calif. Over the July 4th week, rates at the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino Lake Tahoe, according to a recent search, were running from $272, and drop $30 a night the week after.In Costa Rica, you will likely see some rain in the afternoons during the May-to-November “green season,” but the forests will be lush. Dantica Cloud Forest Lodge in San Gerardo de Dota near Los Quetzales National Park has rates in green season from $159, versus $184 in high season.September and OctoberWith family vacations, traffic peaks in Hawaii in summer. But once school is in session, traffic wanes, making early fall a cheaper time to say aloha. October is its lowest occupancy month when a hotel like the Aston Waikiki Beach Hotel in Honolulu goes for $169, versus July at $195.San Diego also empties out when school resumes, though highs remain in the low 70s. San Diego businesses sweeten the deal to attract families with a Kids Free San Diego promotion, offering free admission and deals at over 100 attractions, hotels and restaurants in October.In addition to Antoni Gaudí fans, foodies and cruise passengers, Barcelona is popular with conventions, drawing more than 200 a year. The International Congress and Convention Association, which tracks meetings, has Barcelona as its top international location. Go in November for weather in the 60s, but check the convention calendar at barcelonaconventionbureau.com. In Egypt, the tourism plunge that followed the Arab Spring is over. Statistics from the World Travel & Tourism Council show 2017 arrivals in Egypt topped 2011 for the first time and tour operators report sellouts are common.“The sneaky time to go to Egypt is November 15 to December 15,” said Jim Berkeley, the founder and chief executive officer of Destinations & Adventures International, which specializes in Egypt. “Americans don’t travel there much over Thanksgiving Day, the weather is perfect and it’s not as crowded as holiday seasons.”Tip: Don’t miss Cyber Monday sales. It’s one of the few times each year that the national park lodge operator Xanterra Travel Collection puts rooms on sale.Pre-Christmas is a good time to hit desert destinations in Arizona. The hotel rates in Scottsdale, for example, are a third lower than they will be in February at an average daily rate of $176 while the average high is 68 degrees, ideal for hiking and golfing.In Miami during Art Basel, the first week in December, rooms are at their most expensive. Just after, while many of the art installations are still on view, room rates plummet from an average of $463 to $227 up until Christmas.From a savings perspective, January is an ideal time to visit northern American cities. You’ll give up fair weather, but culture fans won’t notice from inside museums and theaters.According to 2018 figures from STR, Inc., a research firm that tracks hotel data, New York City was at its lowest annual occupancy rate, 75 percent, in January with an average daily rate of $185.73, versus an average rate for the year of $262.31 per night. (The figures are similar in February).From these metrics, many promotions flow, including NYC Broadway Week with two for one tickets for about three weeks in late January and early February, and Hotel Week NYC in early January when hotels like the Freehand New York offered rooms for $100, versus $260 normally.Similarly, Washington, D.C. is on sale in winter. Its average hotel rates in January, $173, are $100 less than they will be in March when school breaks drive occupancy.Tip: Book a cruise during “wave season,” January through March, when cruise lines put their itineraries on sale. CruiseCritic.com, the online cruise publication, cautions that wave season doesn’t necessarily net rock-bottom prices, but it’s a good time to get a cabin upgrade or onboard credits.After Christmas and New Year’s weeks, President’s Day week is the busiest, and costliest, on the ski slopes. But back it up to Super Bowl Sunday and you’ll save.“As airlines and hotels have shoulder periods, at ski resorts you can find good options in the high period,” said Evan Reece, the chief executive of Liftopia, which sells lift tickets for more than 250 ski resorts in North America. “A few examples are Christmas Day, New Year’s Day and Super Bowl Sunday.”Operators in Napa Valley have taken to calling the December through March period “Cabernet Season,” highlighting the cooler temperatures when richer winter foods pair best with the wine region’s signature cabernets. By February, color returns to the vineyards as wild mustard plants flourish.In this period, hotel occupancy hovers around 60 percent, versus close to 80 percent May through October, saving, on average, $100 a night, according to Visit Napa Valley.Tip: Chinese New Year, which usually falls in February, is seismic in terms of its impact on travel, within Asia and abroad. “You don’t want to be anywhere near China for two weeks on either side of Chinese New Year,” said Stan Godwyn, a California-based travel advisor at the Travel Store, who specializes in China.Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Thursday. ⚾️ Baseball season begins today. The Yankees’ home opener is against the Baltimore Orioles. The Mets play the Nationals in Washington.Weather: Early in the day, the wind chill will make it feel as if we’re in the 30s, but it’ll probably reach the mid-50s.Alternate-side parking: In effect until April 18 (Holy Thursday).A severe measles outbreak has been plaguing New York since October, with hundreds of confirmed cases both in the city and suburban Rockland County, prompting officials to spring into action.New York City issued an emergency order in December, demanding that some schools prohibit students who were not vaccinated against measles from attending classes.And in an extraordinary step, Rockland County on Tuesday barred unvaccinated children from public places for 30 days.In 2018, New York and New Jersey accounted for more than half of the measles cases in the country. Nearly two decades ago, the United States had gone more than a year without any “continuous disease transmission.”Here’s what you need to know about measles in New York today.Measles in New York CityThere have been 214 confirmed cases of measles in Brooklyn and Queens since October, according to the city’s health department.In Williamsburg, 161 cases have been confirmed; in Borough Park, there have been 47. The remaining cases have been in the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Midwood, Marine Park, Bensonhurst and Brighton Beach, and in Flushing, Queens.Measles in Rockland CountyThe county, which is north of New York City and has a population of more than 300,000, has had 155 confirmed cases since October, according to its Health Department.Are these cases linked?The outbreak in both places has mostly affected ultra-Orthodox Jewish communities and is associated with travelers who brought back measles from Israel, where the disease is spreading.Lower vaccination rates and anti-vaccination information are also contributing to the wave of cases, public officials say.What exactly is measles?Measles is among the most contagious of the infectious diseases. It killed 110,000 people globally in 2017, mostly children younger than 5.In some cases, measles can lead to pneumonia, permanent deafness and brain damage.What are the symptoms?People may show no symptoms up to two weeks after being infected.At first, the signs of measles can appear benign — a moderate fever, cough, sore throat or runny nose. Later, a fever may reach 104 or 105 degrees, and the telltale red dots can appear on the skin.How is measles spread?Measles is transmitted by droplets from an infected person’s nose or mouth. The virus can live in the airspace where the person has breathed, coughed or sneezed.According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, someone who is not vaccinated “can catch measles just by being in a room where a person with measles has been, up to two hours after that person is gone.”How safe and effective is the measles vaccine?The measles-mumps-rubella vaccine is extremely safe and effective. The vast majority of people who contract measles have not been vaccinated.It does not cause autism.If I choose not to vaccinate my child, why should anyone else care?An unvaccinated child can get the virus and spread it to those who can’t protect themselves. Infants and people with compromised immune systems cannot get vaccines.Why is this a problem now?Vaccination rates are down worldwide. Public health officials are fighting back, repeatedly pointing out that medical and scientific evidence confirms that vaccines are safe. Still, dangerous misinformation is proliferating.“This feels like a very real-world manifestation of what can happen when you’re in an echo chamber,” said The Times’s Michael Gold, who has reported on the recent outbreak.[Here’s more on what you need to know about measles, including where else in the country it has spread.]It’s Opening Day, and 50 years ago the Mets started their improbable run to the World Series championship. Here was a group of players who had stumbled all over the place in 1962, with fans who embraced them almost in defiance. A team that slowly improved in the years that followed, and figured it all out for one intensely memorable season.[Read more about the Mets’ 1969 season here.]A secretive dinner where $25,000 buys access to Governor Cuomo (and filet mignon).Why the plan to legalize marijuana in New Jersey suddenly unraveled.Subway bathrooms: Are they as bad as you think?“They’re leaving us with nothing.” The cutting of 150 teachers threatens a troubled New Jersey city.Scanning 900 pages of Michael Cohen documents in fewer than 10 minutes: How two Times reporters sped through them.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.A Brooklyn councilman is facing criticism for writing “Palestine does not exist” in a tweet directed at a local reporter. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]A young man from the Bronx —  whom we’ve told you about — is changing the face of birding. [WNYC]The executive producer of HBO’s “Veep” wants Alec Baldwin for New York City mayor and the “ghost of Mario Cuomo” for president. [Politico]“The truth is haters gonna hate,” Chirlane McCray, the city’s first lady, said when asked about her mental health initiative. [New York Post]The city filed a lawsuit against Ballyhoo Media, the company behind those floating billboards. [Gothamist]Hear rare audio recordings of Lou Reed from his archive at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts in Manhattan. 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. [Free]The Afro-Puerto Rican author Dahlma Llanos-Figueroa celebrates the 10th anniversary of “Daughters of the Stone” with a reading and book signing at the KRVC Development Corporation in the Bronx. 7 p.m. [Free]Tune into an electronic music performance at the Old Stone House in Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [$10]— Elisha BrownEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.March Madness brackets aren’t just for basketball. They’re for pizza slices. The name of the year. And one-liners.Emily Winter, a writer and comedian from Brooklyn, founded One-Liner Madness, a bracket-style single-elimination joke contest, six years ago, and she is hosting a version tonight in the borough. (She’s hosted more than a dozen of these shows across the country.)Here’s how it works:• Sixty-four comedians compete. Two are onstage at a time, and each tells a one-line joke.• The audience laughs (or boos — this is Brooklyn, after all), and judges decide who advances to the next round.The contest lasts about 90 minutes, and there are lots of jokes flying around — from the competitors, Ms. Winter and even the musician who performs between rounds.The sets are short. No context is needed.“I’ve never thrown a bad one,” Ms. Winter said about the show, adding that it’s usually a hit, even if the one-liners aren’t.“The people that don’t have the jokes get eliminated right away, and if there’s somebody you don’t like, they won’t be onstage that long.”The show starts at 8 p.m. at the Bell House in Brooklyn. Tickets are $15.It’s Thursday — what’s your best line?Dear Diary:Hey, Holden, I hear that you’re worried, concerned —Where are the ducks since the weather has turned? You’ve asked several cabbies, they simply don’t know, Where are the ducks and where do they go?They’re lonely and cold and prob’bly depressed,It’s tough in this town when you haven’t a nest.When the trees are all bare and the temper’ture’s brutal.And the mood is despair and the journey is futile.But kiddo, take heart, because this is the crux:If you listen for quacking, you’ll see that the ducksAre here in the park and they haven’t flown far —They splash and relax in the grand reservoir.The ducklings, the drakes, the mallards, the hens,All the ducks in a row, our fine feathered friends.Dining on sushi, a marvelous feast,Central Park’s their address: West, Middle and East.So, hang in there, Holden, everything’s ducky,Both you and the birds are lovely and lucky.No need to wonder just where the ducks go,Look no further than here, and thank Jackie O.— Lou CraftNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThere’s more to the show than banging on a can. Ask George Lucas, Hillary Clinton — and the performer who’s been doing it for 20 years.By Sopan DebOne man’s trash really can be another man’s treasure. At least that’s the lesson you might take from “Stomp,” the durable New York-based stage show that has become a long-running institution in a city where sticking power can be hard to come by.About to celebrate the 25th anniversary of its New York premiere, “Stomp” has endured, not thanks to high-priced sets and effects, but from wielding everyday objects like brooms, garbage cans and wooden poles to create a wordless percussive explosion onstage. And let’s not forget the 150 or so performers who have smacked their way in and out of its cast. (On March 3, some alumni will join the current cast in the two performances, followed by a private party.)“Stomp” is the brainchild of Luke Cresswell, 55, and Steve McNicholas, 63, who still maintain creative control. (Blue Man Group, another downtown mainstay, was sold to Cirque du Soleil in 2017.) And while they have expressed interest in branching out — in 1997, Mr. McNicholas told the Times, “We’re kind of trapped, because we don’t feel we can walk away from it” — “Stomp” has come to define their lives.They started working together in the early 1980s, creating a one-off in their hometown Brighton, England, called “Romance Is Not Dead” that they performed on the day of the royal wedding of Charles and Diana as counterprogramming.Later, they busked on the streets outside the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in a band called Pookiesnackenburger. Mr. Cresswell described their early music in an interview as “very eclectic, punky, thrashy, scratchy,” and with “lots of running around.”The band eventually split up, but Mr. Cresswell and Mr. McNicholas formed a new troupe: an ensemble of eight performers that made its debut as “Stomp” at the festival in 1991.Mr. Cresswell had been the band’s percussionist; since he could only carry a few small drums, he began improvising on the street, which meant he would use surrounding objects as well. “We quickly learned how much the audience enjoyed that kind of experimentation,” Mr. McNicholas said.After three years of international touring, Mr. Cresswell and Mr. McNicholas brought the act to New York where it has never left the Orpheum Theater in the East Village. Along the way, “Stomp” launched several touring companies, appeared on late night television, filmed an HBO special and collaborated with A-listers.There have been bumps. In 2010, a national tour of “Pandemonium: The Lost and Found Orchestra,” another sound-centered show from Mr. Cresswell and Mr. McNicholas, was canceled after less than three weeks of performances.But “Stomp” itself has become part of pop culture and an unqualified success, which hasn’t fazed the founding duo. “We’re British and we live in England so we’re quite reserved,” said Mr. McNicholas. “We’re quite used to people telling us that we’re nothing special.”As the show celebrates a quarter century in New York, where a spokeswoman said it has grossed about $100 million, here are 10 things you might not know about “Stomp.”In the early 1980s, Pookiesnackenburger was a supporting act for Madness at the Dominion Theater in London. Yes, that Madness, as in the guys who earwormed “Our house in the middle of the street” into an entire generation of unsuspecting British teenagers.“They once described us as their favorite group,” Mr. McNicholas said.The connection has lasted. Mr. Cresswell and Mr. McNicholas helped orchestrate a theatrical launch show for Madness’s 2009 album, “The Liberty of Norton Folgate.”“Stomp” props might seem widely available. But Mr. Cresswell said that everyday objects, depending on where they’re made, make different sounds. He and Mr. McNicholas have the props shipped from Britain by boat.On one voyage in the late 1990s, a freak wave hit a boat carrying “Stomp” trash cans. The cargo box carrying the cans sank to the bottom of the North Sea.“Stomp” has used a total of 13,000 poles, 5,200 boxes of tissues, and 52,000 candles during its New York run.And for when the drummers have suffered injuries: 7,800 Ace bandages.In the late 1990s, George Lucas was looking to cast “Star Wars: Episode I — The Phantom Menace,” the highly anticipated prequel to the franchise. He had seen “Stomp” on the West Coast.“They were looking for someone really musical and with rhythm,” Mr. Cresswell recalled.Mr. Lucas and the casting director, Robin Gurland, invited several “Stomp” cast members to audition. Ahmed Best got the job — as Jar Jar Binks, who ended up being one of the most reviled characters in “Star Wars” history.In the original 1994 review, the critic Stephen Holden wrote: “One person who would probably have given ‘Stomp’ his stamp of approval is John Cage. Not only does the show demonstrate with an entrancing charm the music to be found in everyday objects, it does so at a relatively modest volume.”Cage, who died two years before “Stomp” debuted in New York, was the influential avant-garde composer who thrived on defying convention, and urged other artists to do the same.The “Stomp” creators have had plenty of celebrity collaborators, from Bette Midler (the roots of the show are clear in a pre-“Stomp” segment from her “Mondo Beyondo Show”) to the vaudevillian Bill Irwin (on “The Late Show With David Letterman” in 1997).The founders’ favorite appearance, they said, was with Paul Simon and Jimmy Fallon, performing the Simon and Garfunkel hit “Cecilia” on “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon” in 2011.Carlos Thomas, 42, is one of the longest running cast members, having made his debut 20 years ago.He was more prepared for his audition than most prospective performers, having grown up with a single mother who couldn’t afford to buy him instruments.“To practice rhythm, I would make drums out of pots and pans,” Mr. Thomas said in an interview. “In high school, I would be the guy who would take the desk, chair and chalk on the chalkboard and go ‘Chooka-chooka-chooka.’ I’d make music out of everything in the classroom.”In 2015, Daniela and Tom Isenschmid bought out an entire “Stomp” show in London so they could make the performance the main attraction at their wedding reception.“Stomp” auditions occur once every two or three years. They are essentially open calls.One time, a dancer brought her boyfriend to an audition in London. The boyfriend watched the workshop through a window.“We said, ‘Come in, come in.’ And he came in, and he was great,” Mr. Cresswell said.His girlfriend didn’t make the ensemble. Paul Bend did, and has been a “Stomp” cast member since 2001. The couple is no longer together.In 1999, Mr. Cresswell and Mr. McNicholas were planning to mark the millennium scuba diving off the Micronesian island Yap, until they received a call from the office of Hillary Clinton, who was first lady at the time. Mrs. Clinton requested that they perform on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial on New Year’s Eve. (Quincy Jones, a longtime supporter of the partners, helped make the connection.)“Stomp” dutifully did the show and skipped the scuba diving.“Then we partied at the White House till 4 in the morning,” Mr. Cresswell said. “It was fantastic.”“It was the best party I’ve ever been to,” Mr. McNicholas added.Sopan Deb is a culture reporter, writing about the intersection of politics and culture, among other topics. He covered Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign for CBS News, and his work has appeared on NBC, Al Jazeera America and elsewhere.  @sopandeb AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Inyoung Kang and Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with Theresa May’s last-ditch Brexit offer, Boeing’s proposed software updates and the ethics of being a March Madness fan.Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday said she would resign and let someone else negotiate the final details of Britain’s departure from the European Union if Parliament approved her Brexit plan.The same day, lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on eight options for Britain’s future. None mustered a majority.Mrs. May has lost the support of much of her Conservative Party. But her overture led some past critics to say they would back her plan, which Parliament has rejected twice. It could return for a vote as soon as today, but still faces long odds.What’s next: Mrs. May didn’t specify when she would step down, but the European Union has said that it will approve an extension in the Brexit process to May 22 if her plan gains approval. Britain has until April 12 to agree on a strategy.President Trump decided to push to overturn the Affordable Care Act despite concerns from the attorney general, the health secretary and the vice president. In doing so, he sided with Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, who spent years as a South Carolina congressman calling for a repeal. The administration’s move angered some Republicans in Congress who worry that it could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020 and that the party lacks a clear path to passing replacement legislation in a Democrat-controlled House.Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a law professor argues that the effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act threatens not just the health care system, but also the rule of law.Yesterday: A federal judge struck down Medicaid work requirements in Arkansas and Kentucky, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program.The company acknowledged on Wednesday that new software in its jets could have played a role in two deadly crashes and publicly laid out proposed updates for the first time. The changes would give pilots more control and make the system less likely to be set off by faulty data, two issues at the center of the crash investigations.Boeing also faced scrutiny in a congressional hearing over the development and certification of the 737 Max jet, the process of which had been heavily delegated to the company by regulators.Closer look: The updated software will rely on data from two sensors, so the plane won’t have a single point of failure. It will also make it easier for pilots to override the system.By one count, more than 40 million people have filled out a bracket during the N.C.A.A. basketball tournaments.But as a wide-ranging F.B.I. investigation into athletic recruiting continues to ensnare big-name colleges, fans know about the game’s intractable relationship to corruption.We spoke to philosophers about the ethics of being a fan during March Madness.Looking ahead: Here’s what to expect in the round of 16 for the men’s tournament, which starts today, and the women’s tournament, which gets underway on Friday.Since the 1950s, hundreds of dogs have jumped off this gothic stone bridge in a town near Glasgow. Many have ended up dead in the valley below. Researchers say there is a rational explanation, but in a land of superstition and mystery, others are not so sure. Read our correspondent’s report.Huawei security worries: The British authorities found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, according to a report released today. That conclusion supports a U.S. effort to ban Huawei from next-generation wireless networks.Congestion pricing: It could soon cost more than $10 to drive into parts of Manhattan under a new plan that is expected to be adopted April 1.Facebook ban: The company has said that it would ban white nationalist content from its platforms. The policy change comes after a racist gunman used social media to post live video of his attacks on mosques in New Zealand this month.Special Olympics funding: Education Secretary Betsy Devos has faced scathing criticism over a budget proposal that would eliminate funding for the nonprofit organization, which helps people with disabilities. But the cuts are unlikely to be approved by Congress.New Jersey marijuana plan: A proposed bill to legalize the drug was backed by officials, and polls showed public support for the issue. But disagreements among lawmakers ultimately led to the unraveling of the plan.Snapshot: Above, the New York Mets after defeating the Baltimore Orioles to win the World Series, on Oct. 16, 1969. The Times looked back at the season in which the bumbling franchise became the Amazin’ Mets. We also preview the 2019 baseball season, which begins in earnest today, with all 30 Major League teams in action.Late-night comedy: A survey found that Americans spent almost $40 billion while drunk, “which could explain the popularity of Uggs,” Jimmy Kimmel said.What we’re reading: This piece in Kotaku, a gaming website. Mike Wines, a national correspondent, writes: “I often dream of flying passenger jets almost at street level, terrified of hitting overhead electric wires and crashing. This author’s fantastic dreams put mine to shame, and make this sad story riveting.”Cook: Season Taiwanese three-cup chicken to your taste.Go: “White Noise,” Suzan-Lori Parks’s new play, is an enthralling study of interracial relationships. It’s a Critic’s Pick.Listen: The Norwegian singer and songwriter Marie Ulven, who performs as girl in red, records emotional songs about seeking and losing love. Read: “Pleasure Activism,” a collection of essays and conversations on social justice work, is new this week on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: “Precrastination” is like procrastination, but the other way around. It means tackling subgoals at the earliest opportunity — readying, arriving, delivering ahead of schedule. That can come at the expense of productive effort. Knowing that you’re keyed to jump the gun is a first step. Next is blocking off time for some unstructured thinking.And adventurous women shared safety tips after reading a Times article about the dangers that solo female travelers face.The superhero turns 80 on Saturday. He’s had countless adventures in comics, TV and film.In “To Kill a Legend,” written by Alan Brennert and drawn by Dick Giordano for Detective Comics No. 500, published in the early 1980s, the story is personal.Batman visits a parallel world and prevents the deaths of his parents, the cataclysmic event that makes Bruce Wayne become Batman. (Parallel worlds were a favorite of your Back Story writer, because they imagined so many different paths for DC’s heroes.)Batman observes a bratty other-Bruce, but he is transfixed by Thomas and Martha Wayne: “Dear lord … it’s as if they’ve come alive again! As if I could … reach out and touch them.” Later, he neutralizes their would-be killer.The story’s epilogue is genius. The other-Bruce is changed. While our Batman was born of grief, guilt or vengeance, this one knows a tragedy was averted and is driven by awe, mystery and gratitude.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— Inyoung and ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. George Gene Gustines, who has been writing about comics since 2002, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the prosecution of the singer R. Kelly.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Mickey Mouse’s pet dog (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • In May, The Times will launch a website devoted to parenting. Sign up for the newsletter, and read the first issue.Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Anthony TommasiniMost pianists begin a recital with a piece that allows them to warm up a little, and gives the audience a chance to settle in.Not Jason Hardink. He began his concert on Tuesday at Weill Recital Hall with Jason Eckardt’s “Echoes’ White Veil,” a dizzying, manic 12-minute work of almost stupefying difficulty. There is just a hint of hesitancy at the start, with percussively repeated notes and sputtered trills.Then the music takes off — and how, with frenzied runs in each hand crisscrossing like strands of unhinged counterpoint, bursts of pummeling cluster chords leaping the length of the keyboard, and more. Some passages hint of avant-garde jazz, like an audacious Cecil Taylor improvisation, but with flintier modernist madness. This 1996 piece has become a calling card for Mr. Hardink, who played Mr. Eckardt’s score not just with command, but with abandon and remarkable clarity.Mr. Hardink’s daunting selections reflected, he wrote in a program note, his interest in large-scale works from all eras that “lie at the limit of feasibility.” Last year he ran the Wasatch Front 100 Mile Endurance Test in Utah, and this recital was a pianistic endurance test.There was a bit of relief when, after the Eckardt, he shifted the mood to play Book Two of Debussy’s “Images.” I wanted a little more nuance and milky sonorities in “Cloches à Travers les Feuilles.” But he brought welcome lucidity and rhythmic crispness to the music, especially the splashing murmurs and darting runs of “Poissons d’Or.”With Xenaxis’s “Evryali” (1973), Mr. Hardink was back in testing-the-limits mode with a work that explores extremes of expression. There are constant shifts from obsessively repeated notes and chords, to wildly skittish bursts, to rhythmic episodes that almost — but never quite — slip into a marching groove. Yet somehow the piece comes across as a complete entity, as least as played here with such bright sound and stamina.Liszt was a pioneer in pushing the bounds of what’s possible at the piano, especially in his Transcendental Études. Mr. Hardink played four of these. Other pianists have made these fiercely virtuosic pieces sound more rhapsodic and poetic. But Mr. Hardink dispatched them deftly. He ended with crystalline accounts of four pieces from Messiaen’s monumental cycle “Vingt Regards sur l’Enfant-Jésus.”Mr. Hardink’s capacity for tenderness and grace came through in the ruminative, harmonically tart passages of these cosmic pieces. But, no surprise, he was at his best in the vehement dance “Regard de l’Esprit de Joie,” in which he captured spiritual ecstasy as, to quote Messiaen’s description, “a drunkenness, in the most extravagant sense.”Even Mr. Hardink may have his limits: He played no encores. But what could follow such a program?Jason HardinkPerformed on Tuesday at Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, Manhattan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIt’s vasectomy season in the United States. But American women get sterilized at higher rates. By Christina Caron[A newsletter for parents with evidence-based guidance and personal stories for your transformed life with kids. Sign up to get NYT Parenting in your inbox every week.]March Madness is upon us, and for urologists throughout the country that means one thing: It’s vasectomy season.Let me explain.Every year, men schedule their vasectomies in conjunction with the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, so they can watch the games while recovering on the couch with a frozen bag of peas.In fact, at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., so many men sign up for vasectomies during March Madness that appointments reach “max capacity,” said Dr. Tobias S. Kohler, a urologist and men’s health expert at the medical center who has observed this phenomenon ever since he was an attending physician a decade ago. But even though a study last year found a peak in the number of vasectomies during March — and also at the end of the year during the holidays — most men in this country don’t opt for sterilization: They rely on their female partners to prevent pregnancy.In the United States, female sterilization is twice as prevalent as vasectomy, according to 2015 estimates from the United Nations — despite the fact that vasectomy is equally effective, less invasive and carries a lower risk of complications.Why? It’s a blend of cost, misconceptions and fears about the procedure, and cultural expectations about what truly defines a man. Chris Lopez, 34, a father of three boys in Suffolk, Va., said even though he and his wife are not planning to have more children, he’s against the idea of a vasectomy.“If I couldn’t produce kids for some medical reason or biological reason, I know for a fact it would make me feel not good about myself,” he said. For Mr. Lopez, the ability to rear children is tied to his beliefs about masculinity. A man is many things, he said: strong, brave, a good dancer — but also, he’s supposed to be able to “have kids if that’s what he wants.” Then there are the practical considerations, he added. Looking ahead 20 years, will he and his wife still be married? Will she even be alive? “Maybe I meet a younger woman or something like that and she wants to have kids, and then I can’t give that to her,” Mr. Lopez said. His wife, Sarah Kennedy-Lopez, 38, said she laughed when she and her husband first discussed these hypothetical scenarios, but even so, she understands where he’s coming from. “Not all couples do make it,” she said, adding, “life does go on should a spouse die.”Their children — a 7-year-old and 4-year-old twins — were conceived via in vitro fertilization, and her chances of getting pregnant without assistance are so low that neither of them uses birth control. So she isn’t pressing the issue.“A couple times I have said to him, ‘Well, you know you could get a vasectomy and take care of that, so there would be no worries,’ and he says, ‘No, no, no — I’m not doing that. You can go and get your tubes tied,’” she said. “But I wouldn’t want to do that either, especially because I feel like I went through enough in conceiving our children in the first place.”Studies have shown that men who receive vasectomies in the United States are typically white, non-Hispanic and live in the North Central and Western regions of the country. They also tend to have private insurance.Vasectomy is covered either partially or in full under most insurance plans, but the procedure may require a referral from a primary care provider. Without insurance, the price is usually about $1,000. Vasectomy reversals, however, are not covered by insurance, and the procedure is cumbersome and expensive.By contrast, the Affordable Care Act required insurance companies to cover 18 types of contraception used by women, including sterilization surgery, and no co-payment is required. Aside from cost, getting a vasectomy often requires multiple visits to the doctor — first to establish consent, then to have the surgery and later to figure out when the sperm has been purged from the ejaculate. The entire process can take three months or more. Dr. Anuj Khattar, a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health who practices in the Seattle area, estimated that after the initial consultation, 20 to 30 percent of his patients end up either changing their minds or simply not showing up for the procedure. “I think part of the fears around vasectomy is that it’s so permanent,” Dr. Khattar said, adding that some men worry about “losing some of their virility and their ability to enjoy sex.” But “physiologically, it doesn’t affect any of those functions,” he said. “There’s just a lot of misinformation.”Ryan Cragun, a professor of sociology at the University of Tampa and father of one, said that despite his desire to get a vasectomy, he too had last-minute doubts: “Oh my gosh, I’m basically sterilizing myself,” he recalled thinking.Even though it is estimated that about half a million men receive vasectomies in the United States each year, Dr. Cragun said it isn’t something men tend to talk openly about. Post-vasectomy, he reports his sex life has improved, especially now that his wife is no longer taking birth control. “Her libido is up, there’s no condom involved — it’s better. That’s a win-win in every regard,” he said. In some countries, including Britain, South Korea, Canada, Ireland, Spain and Australia, the prevalence of vasectomy exceeds that of female sterilization, according to the United Nations. But worldwide, just like in the United States, female sterilization is far more common, and couples who use contraception choose methods designed to be used by women. Caila Smith, 25, a mother in Huntington, Ind., said she was encouraged to get her tubes tied by some of her health care providers after she became pregnant with twins a second time. She didn’t like the side effects of the birth control pill or Depo-Provera injections, both of which she had tried in the past, so she opted for tubal ligation after her children were born, in part because it was covered in full by insurance and she was told she could get the procedure done during her cesarean section. After enduring a painful recovery, she learned that her fiancé could have gotten a vasectomy at minimal cost and that she now has a higher risk of ectopic pregnancy, something that wasn’t clear to her beforehand. “They gave me a form and I guess I just kind of skimmed through it, you know, without digging too deep into what could happen,” she said. “If I knew then what I knew now, I feel like I would have pushed for him to get a vasectomy.” Unlike vasectomy, which is a quick outpatient procedure to cut and seal the tubes that carry sperm and block the transfer of sperm to the ejaculate, tubal ligation is far more invasive and often conducted under general anesthesia. The surgery, which involves cutting or blocking the fallopian tubes, carries higher rates of complications, including damage to surrounding organs, said Dr. Holly Bullock, an assistant professor in the department of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson.  The procedure does have its benefits, however.“It is immediately effective and can be completely her decision that does not rely upon a partner’s follow-through to get the procedure and the follow-up post-vasectomy semen analysis to prove that it was effective,” Dr. Bullock said.Tubal ligation may even reduce the risk of ovarian cancer, particularly among women who have BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations, according to the American Cancer Society. And removing both fallopian tubes entirely, a procedure called salpingectomy, is thought to reduce the risk even more, Dr. Bullock said. That’s because doctors now believe that some ovarian cancers originate in the cells of the tubes.But, she added, she recommends vasectomy to patients who are exploring permanent options.Marco Cabrera, 38, a father of two in Traverse City, Mich., who had a vasectomy in 2016, said, “I feel like this is one place where men need to quote-unquote man up,” adding that he knew men who had refused to get vasectomies, insisting that their wives undergo sterilization instead. “I’m just really unimpressed with some of the men I meet,” he said.Despite having had complications after the surgery, “I still think the vasectomy was worth it,” he said. “I don’t have to worry anymore. I know I’ve done my part.” Christina Caron is a parenting reporter. Before joining The Times in 2014, she spent a decade editing and writing for broadcast news and also worked as a clinical research coordinator at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.  @cdcaron AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, the latest news on Boeing’s plane troubles, and more Brexit angst.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Here’s your roundup of the top news in business and tech, plus all you need to know for the week ahead. Even if your March Madness bracket was a flop, at least you can feel good about your news I.Q.MARCH 31-APRIL 6Boeing’s grounded fleet of 737 Max jets probably won’t be back in the air anytime soon. A preliminary report on what caused one of the aircraft to crash in Ethiopia last month determined that the pilots followed all of Boeing’s safety protocols. While investigators stopped short of blaming the company for the plane crash, the report does put more pressure on the manufacturer and aviation authorities to figure out what happened — and to make sure it won’t again. Boeing has already lost one order of its 737 planes from Indonesia’s national airline, and the longer it takes to get the jets cleared for flight, the more customers (and money) it stands to lose. President Trump said on Thursday that he planned to give Mexico a “one-year warning” to stop drug smuggling and illegal immigration or he’ll close the southern border. This was a big step back from a threat he had made the week before, when he said he’d close the border in the next few days. His initial statement was followed by widespread panic. A border closing would seriously harm the American economy, halting the daily flow of $1.7 billion of goods and services between the two countries. This would cause food shortages (where would we get our avocados?) and price spikes. It would also hurt the 500,000 legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists who cross the border each day. If you’re getting tired of Facebook’s user data — particularly your own — showing up in places it shouldn’t, you’re in good company. A cybersecurity firm reported this past week that it had stumbled upon a huge cache of Facebook user information on one of Amazon’s cloud computing servers. The information included millions of Facebook users’ passwords, comments, and account names, and all of it could be downloaded by anyone who found it online. The database was closed after Facebook learned about its contents, but considering the rash of similar cases in the past year, this won’t be the last breach of its kind. APRIL 7-13Mr. Trump escalated his sniping at the Federal Reserve on Friday, calling on the organization to cut interest rates and use other means to boost economic growth. He also continued to accuse the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, of throwing water on the economy by raising interest rates last year. It’s unusual for a president to so openly attempt to exert influence over the central bank, but Mr. Trump is taking his efforts a step further by announcing plans to nominate two of his longtime supporters for seats on the Fed’s board. One is his “friend,” the former pizza executive and 2012 presidential hopeful Herman Cain, and the other is Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Powell will surely be asked about all of this on Wednesday, after the Fed releases the minutes of its March meeting. European Union leaders will hold a last-minute summit on Wednesday to discuss the fate of Brexit, which has now dragged on past the point of absurdity. Britain is now slated to withdraw from the bloc on April 12 with or without a concrete plan, unless Prime Minister Theresa May can win Parliament’s agreement for another deadline extension. There has been much hand-wringing over the possibility of a no-deal Brexit, which could be disastrous for the British economy as well as its trade partners. To prepare, many businesses have staged their own reverse Brexit, moving operations elsewhere and holding off on investing in British companies. It’s a lose-lose for Britain, and prolonging the process isn’t likely to improve matters. A trade deal with China may finally be nigh. But then again, who really knows? On Thursday, Mr. Trump gathered with the Chinese delegation, which was in Washington for the umpteenth round of negotiations, to say that he’s anticipating an “epic” trade agreement in about four weeks. He was also expected to announce a presidential summit with Xi Jinping of China, presumably to sign that deal, but he stopped short of doing so. “If we have a deal, then we’ll have a summit,” Mr. Trump said. He is under mounting pressure to make good on the lofty promises he made to American businesses about an agreement, but the clock is ticking on the economic damage that trade tensions are wreaking around the world. Jeff and Mackenzie Bezos have finalized the details of their divorce. He will keep 75 percent of their joint shares in Amazon, leaving her with a $36 billion stake — which makes her one of the richest women in the world. Speaking of wealthy people, Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is still battling with the Securities and Exchange Commission over his ill-advised (and unadvised) tweets about his company. A New York judge gave both parties two weeks to sort out their differences, and recommended that they put on their “reasonableness pants” to do so — a tall order, in this case.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Ed PavlicTO FLOAT IN THE SPACE BETWEEN A Life and Work in Conversation With the Life and Work of Etheridge Knight By Terrance Hayes Illustrated. 207 pp. Wave Books. Paper, $25.“Sometimes you have to conjure an idea of ancestry, an idea of family,” Terrance Hayes writes late in “To Float in the Space Between,” the seventh book by this celebrated poet. Since his 1999 debut, “Muscular Music,” and across five other collections (including “Lighthead,” winner of a 2010 National Book Award, and his latest volume, “American Sonnets for My Past and Future Assassin,” a finalist for the 2018 National Book Award), Hayes, now in his mid-40s, has become one of the most acclaimed poets of his generation. Hybrid and slippery as this book is — part memoir, part study of the poet’s own influences and ancestors, part meditation on poetics and selfhood — “To Float in the Space Between” is Hayes’s first full-length prose work, illustrated by sketches demonstrating the writer’s deft graphic skills.As is the case throughout Hayes’s work, “To Float in the Space Between” is a meditation on family; from the first, Hayes has fingered the grain of black families, whether linked by blood or duty or sexual tension or aesthetic kinship. “To Float” movingly bridges these concerns. The title invokes the career of Etheridge Knight, who began writing poems in prison in the 1960s and carved out a singular career through the 1970s and ’80s. The 19 sections in Hayes’s book take their titles and focus from phrases in Knight’s most celebrated poem, “The Idea of Ancestry.” Thus this collection offers a deep textural (as opposed to textual) encounter between two important and mercurial minds.Since the beginning of Hayes’s career, his poems have presented a syncopated and constantly shifting subject, a speaker insisting he’s agile, hip, logical, bruised, both guttural and highfalutin and who refuses to be drawn into any box of fixed dimension. Hayes’s speakers are always aware they’re being watched both by well-wishers and enemies. They’re also aware it’s often unclear which is which. So his poems shift between notions of survival and excellence in performance — and again, it’s not always clear which is which.This shifting has frequently meant having a stand-in or alibi. At times the alibi is formal. Hayes invents forms — most famously the so-called Golden Shovel, in which one poet honors another by incorporating an existing poem into a new work. Such invention gives Hayes’s poetry a lightheaded if not always lighthearted sense of play, immersed as it is in heavy subjects like race, violence, desire and other dangerous mysteries of self and world. Despite the tragic shadows across Hayes’s playground, his first five books retained a certain upbeat ebullience.History, however, would change the weather. In 2014, Hayes won a MacArthur fellowship. At the same time, Michael Brown’s death and the subsequent non-indictment of the police officer who killed him sparked unrest in Ferguson, Mo. (and elsewhere), concentrating national attention on the issue of police violence and corresponding with the rise of the Black Lives Matter era. The stakes intensified with Donald Trump’s election, and with protests inaugurating the #MeToo movement.Hayes’s response was his most brilliant collection to date, “American Sonnets for My Past and Future Assassin,” a consummate volume of 70 poems each titled “American Sonnet for My Past and Future Assassin” followed by a “Sonnet Index” of first lines arranged into five additional sonnets — a formidable formal alibi, to be sure. Here Hayes unmasks the brutal and perilous need to shift positions, references and sightlines when targeted by a history that fixes cross hairs and chokeholds on the body. This collection utterly refuses to stand still, to be framed as a single thing, because it recognizes that to stand still — to embrace one unified and stable identity — is to give one’s assassin an easy target: “To be divided is to be multiplied,” Hayes writes in Sonnet 21. “Let us / Ponder how it is that you & I have remained / Alive.”Crucially, not all the dangers come from without; selves have been formed in the American crucible, selves perfectly capable of an intricate self-harm. “Assassin, you are a mystery / To me, I say to my reflection sometimes,” Hayes writes in Sonnet 55. These poems sketch their shifts as a mixture of self-referential necessity and everyday survival: “You appear, you appear to disappear, you disappear.” At times Hayes’s shifts carry across platforms. In a short film also titled “American Sonnet for My Past and Future Assassin,” released late last year, the poet dances. He wears a metallic mask, shaded in silhouette, and often in multiple exposure over Tidus’s song “Powers” that repeats its demand: “Can you show us all your power?”“To Float in the Space Between” doesn’t show all Hayes’s powers, but it does transform the fast-twitch shift of his poems into a slower sense of drift. Reading “To Float” after Hayes’s poems feels akin to hearing Coltrane switch from “Giant Steps” (where he sometimes changes keys twice in one measure) to something like “Flamenco Sketches” (where he often remains in one scale for bar after bar after bar). If Hayes’s poems strobe, “To Float” is more tidal. Hayes eases into the flow by using Etheridge Knight’s life and career as his alibi, introducing a book “as speculative, motley and adrift as Knight himself.” Reading “To Float” is also like a dream wherein, magically, one finds oneself in a conversation with a person — maybe someone you know, maybe not — in terms that experience never affords. In the 1980s and ’90s, I had a recurring dream where I’d meet Michael Jordan somewhere, like a laundromat, and our conversation would drift slowly along as we folded our clothes. Reading “To Float” felt to me like one of those dreams: The rhythm is as pleasing as the substance itself.Early in the book, Hayes charts his aesthetic family, the genealogy of his poetics. The question of influence becomes one of connection more than resistance, collaboration more than anxiety. Hayes reminds us that the word “influence” is at root fluid: “from medieval Latin influentia (‘inflow’), from Old French influence (‘a flow of water’).” This is a genealogy that emphasizes the paternal side. Women poets do appear, among them Wanda Coleman, Mary Karr, Sonia Sanchez, Audre Lorde and Gwendolyn Brooks. But mostly this is an “inflow” of poetic fathers. A reader’s conversation with “To Float” will deepen the more he or she knows about the main figures Hayes claims as poet-fathers: Knight, Langston Hughes, Yusef Komunyakaa, Christopher Gilbert. But even if you’ve never heard of these writers, Hayes’s readings function as apt introductions. It’s a gift to encounter writers through the precisely calibrated curiosity of a wide-open searcher like this.Hayes begs off the assignment of the biographer. This is not a book “about” Etheridge Knight, or anyone else. “I felt I had two choices,” Hayes writes: “a rigorously researched biography or a rigorously imagined biography.” He opted for the latter. “I sidestepped research for guesswork; I was reading between the lines of photographs, interviews, letters, maps, scraps of details.” For part of “To Float,” the alibi of “biography” helps Hayes avoid autobiography. But he’s as canny as ever. Consider: Early in the book, Eunice Knight-Bowens, Etheridge’s sister, tells Hayes that Etheridge was the third of seven children. Hayes shares that he “did not ask Eunice why he, and not one of his older brothers, Charles and Floydell, was named after his father.” Over a hundred pages later, Hayes confides: “My younger brother, James L. Hayes II, has my father’s name because James L. Hayes is, biologically speaking, not my father.” Instead of “guesswork,” lyrical rigor floats in the space between Knight and Hayes. He concludes: “My biography about Knight would be about intimacy, heartache.” O.K. But whose?Ultimately, “To Float” charts an intimate “inflow” of selves and methods. Hayes accepts that the “future Etheridge Knight biographer will simultaneously write an autobiography,” then follows with a chapter, “My Genes,” in which he steps far from the spotlight of the famed poet’s stage and travels to Columbia, S.C., to investigate his paternal ancestry. Hayes meets Earthell “Butch” Tyler Jr., the father he didn’t know about until he was 18, along with a series of younger brothers and at least two of their mothers, all for the first time.We come along as Hayes kicks it, almost, with the kinfolk (to steal a line from Knight), and we listen over his shoulder to tales of a quasi-heroic grandfather, Earthell Tyler Sr., who made a military career away from his wife even as she added children to the family while her husband was away. We learn that the senior Tyler was killed in Vietnam in 1965, awarded the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star. Hayes — like the successful college professor and poet he is — tries to decide if he’s listening to stories of shameful abandonment or heroic valor, deciding again and again that “the truth was more layered” than available terms allow. Seeking more details that might — but probably won’t — pierce the layers in his newfound family’s legacy, Hayes embraces the through line that Butch Tyler offers about their legacy, one of openness: “He used to kiss me,” Tyler tells Hayes. “You come from a long line of loving men.”The legacy Hayes’s search unearths is practical as well as ideal, the challenge of men who refused to make their “long line of loving” a synonym for control and ownership, of soldiers who had enough of warfare. Hayes asks was his grandfather funny, or shy, or serious? He’s told: “He was serious. But on the other hand, he was like me. He wasn’t the kind of guy to kick the door in and shoot you” for messing with his woman. Challenged and moved, and maybe changed, by what he’s found, Hayes reports: “Thinking about it on the plane home, I had to put my hand over my eyes.” Through such deeply felt and finely wrought eddies of narrative drift, “To Float in the Space Between” confronts the reader with many such moments of angular reflection and renewed recognition.“Vital. Vital,” is how the poet Gwendolyn Brooks began her lyrical preface to Etheridge Knight’s first pamphlet of poems, “Poems From Prison.” Vital meaning living, and meaning necessary. With a similar double-edged vitality, “To Float in the Space Between” drifts into a growing chorus of autobiographical writings — including such recent books as Yrsa Daley-Ward’s “The Terrible,” Darnell Moore’s “No Ashes in the Fire” and Kiese Laymon’s “Heavy” — that put practical, stress-tested flesh on the closing sentence of Brooks’s preface: “And there is blackness, inclusive, possessed and given; freed and terrible and beautiful.”Ed Pavlic’s latest book, the novel “Another Kind of Madness,” will be published in March. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders clarify who was really harmed, defend the deserving Ivy Leaguers, advise parents to “back off” and sympathize with the kids of the parents charged.To the Editor:Re “U.S. Charges Rich Parents in College Entry Fraud” (front page, March 13):As a lawyer who has studied selective-college admissions, I would like to correct a misperception about the recent college admissions scandal. The accepted applicants whose test scores and athletic abilities were fraudulently inflated did not displace average, hardworking applicants who sought to be admitted on their own academic merits.It is no secret that elite colleges administer separate admissions tracks or niches for athletes, musicians, various ethnic groups and the children of V.I.P.s — who then compete only against one another rather than within the entire applicant pool. Therefore, by fraudulently raising their SAT or ACT scores, those applicants who had famous parents were simply making themselves more competitive vis-à-vis other V.I.P. offspring.Similarly, the applicants with fraudulent athletic credentials got themselves placed at the top of the athletes’ admissions track. Thus, in neither case were the ordinary applicants in the general admissions pool (who are judged more or less strictly on their merits) affected by the frauds perpetrated in this case. Jonathan ZellColumbus, OhioTo the Editor:The recent college admissions scandal has prompted pundit after pundit to bemoan how the Ivy League is made up of wealthy, entitled students who have gotten where they are by illicit means. This is an erroneous impression. Harvard, my alma mater, gives need-based financial aid to approximately 70 percent of students — students who, if they cannot afford to pay $67,580 a year, certainly could not have bribed athletic coaches and SAT proctors to boost their application. I myself received a generous aid package that allowed me to afford to attend. Nearly all the people I encountered at Harvard were fiercely intellectual, dedicated learners who were there because they worked hard for it, not because their parents paid to get them admitted.I am pleased that this incident is fostering a much-needed conversation about education inequality, but the reality is that the vast majority of Ivy League students are there as a result of 12 years of diligence and drive.Talia WeisbergCambridge, Mass.To the Editor:Dear Ambitious Parents:O.K., these people were crazy, but take a look in the mirror and please, just stop. Stop the countless college visits, stop the help with the application essay, stop sending the message that the value of the kid = name of the school. Stop supporting the poisonous gossip at school and across parents about who’s applying where and why.I know you love your kid. But stop contributing to a system that disadvantages other kids — who are also smart, good kids and whose futures are just as important as the future of your kid. Stop the madness. While education is important, college is just the beginning of your child’s many choices and experiences — none of which you will control. Back off.Judy KarasikSilver Spring, Md.To the Editor:There are many reactions to the college admissions fraud scandal. As I have mulled them over, I find the worst is the message to the children involved — that their parents did not believe they could enter a good college without cheating. What a blow to the self-esteem of these potential students. My heart reaches out to them.Susan GardnerCortlandt Manor, N.Y. The writer is a retired pediatrician. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Hermione HobySOME TRICK By Helen DeWitt 224 pp. New Directions. $22.95.In German there’s a predictably satisfying word for the final work produced by an apprentice: Gesellenstück, an object assessed by the relevant guild for its application of logical and practical skill. A solid thing, then, in both senses: physically durable and intellectually sound. It’s also, however, an object that does not serve its ostensible purpose. Made purely to demonstrate its maker’s proficiency, a Gesellenstück cabinet is less a thing to put in one’s living room for holding china than a thing made to prove its cabinet-ness. Or, in the case of “Brutto” (“Ugly”), the first story in Helen DeWitt’s brilliant, manic new collection, “Some Trick,” a suit is not a thing to be worn but instead, a thing that attests to suit-ness. A financially struggling painter hides her Gesellenstück — a fusty monstrosity, technically perfect and fashionably moribund, a “baleful garment that no one would ever wear because of the hatefulness of the cloth and the cut and the straps and the stitching” — in a wardrobe in her studio. Until it’s seized on by a shameless Italian curator thrilled by the suit’s hideousness. He orders her to make 20 of them. Miuccia Prada, real-life executor of the jolie-laide look, buys the show.Like a Gesellenstück, a DeWitt short story is a thing crafted with unimpeachable skill, even genius, but as you marvel at the stitching you might also shudder at the sense of a cruel, even brutal, joke. The stitching falls between as well as within stories; the collection proceeds with fractal precision. In “Improvisation Is the Heart of Music,” a wicked little tale about marriage and monotony, a husband repeats the same elaborate anecdote verbatim, over and over. No “heart” to this music; it’s as heartless as the rote rendition of “When the Saints Go Marching In” that the husband and wife sing as a round, closing out the story while engaged in — what else? — the monotony of dishes. Improvisation (or its lack) is also a theme of “Famous Last Words,” in which intellectual theorizing proves a dubious means of seduction, so much so that one character “goes into a skid on the slippage of meaning and smashes up against silence.” There is much madness in DeWitt’s method, a madness of pure logic. Several of DeWitt’s characters are virtuosos or geniuses, including Peter, a statistician by hobby who has written an unexpectedly popular kids’ book about robots. In “My Heart Belongs to Bertie,” Peter is occupied with graphs of binomial distributions as well as various odds related to a potential second book deal. We’re in a mathematical equation. It’s a story that teaches you how to read a DeWitt story, just as her debut novel and masterpiece, “The Last Samurai” (2000), offered to teach willing readers several languages. As Peter attempts to show his uninterested agent some graphs, he’s thwarted: “The surface of the table was taken up with all sorts of paraphernalia superfluous, not to say impedimental, to ratiocination.” That genius and art-making must be stymied by the sticky clutter of life, whether ketchup bottles or the caprice of the publishing market, is hilarious, tragic, maddening and true.Peter, an integer for DeWitt’s interest in “fiction that shows the way mathematicians think,” discovered “eiπ” at the age of 9 and as a child learned that “the rationalist is socialized to mug for the camera” by, for example, “using polysyllabic words in sentences with a high number of dependent clauses, with the quizzical air of one who knows he is amusing the interlocutor by conforming to a fondly held stereotype.” These stories eventuate a better kind of amusement — not indulgence, but the sometimes discomfiting pleasure of being dazzled.Hermione Hoby is the author of the novel “Neon in Daylight.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Seth Meyers is tired of waiting for Joe Biden to announce whether he’s running for president. Biden has been dropping hints, and members of his inner circle have leaked tidbits about his decision-making process. But no date has been set for an official announcement.Meyers said that there was hardly any ambiguity left — but that it’s still painful to have to wait.“According to The Wall Street Journal, former Vice President Joe Biden has told several supporters that he intends to run for president in 2020. Oh my God, just announce already. It’s like going to a Lou Bega concert and wondering if he’s going to play ‘Mambo No. 5.’ He’s going to.” — SETH MEYERS“Joe Biden is the kid you played hide and seek with who would hide behind a sheer curtain. We see you.” — SETH MEYERSTrevor Noah was impressed that several of the Democratic candidates for president have expressed support for the possibility of issuing reparations to the descendants of slaves. When a clip came up of Senator Elizabeth Warren — who has apologized for claiming Native American ancestry in years past — articulating that view, Noah expressed a slightly more cautious form of optimism.“Wow, that is really great to hear. Although I have my eye on you, Elizabeth Warren. I feel like as soon as reparations are passed, she’ll be like, ‘There’s something I didn’t tell you about my ancestry results. I’m also one-20th black! Who knew? I accept cash, check or Apple Pay.’” — TREVOR NOAH“According to a new poll, 55 percent of Americans are in favor of abolishing the Electoral College, but unfortunately because of the Electoral College, 55 percent is less than half.” — SETH MEYERS“I love the N.C.A.A. tournament, but my favorite part is the close-up shots of the chubby trombone player screaming at the camera. The band, wildly cheering for players who won’t even say hello to them. I was in the band, I know.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, celebrating the arrival of March Madness“The race for the Democratic nomination has barely started, and it’s already getting crazy. Listen to this: Former Democratic Senator Mike Gravel is thinking about running at 88 years old. Eighty-eight. When they heard that, Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden were like, ‘Hey, who’s the new kid?’” — JIMMY FALLONHow can President Trump stomach attacking John McCain, a war hero and senator who died last year of brain cancer? “I have another name for people who die,” he says in this faux TV ad: “life quitters.”Jimmy Fallon played a guessing game with Julia Louis-Dreyfus, whose show “Veep” is about to start its last season.Lupita Nyong’o is not following the Hollywood playbook. She’s following her passion.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBrexit could still happen. But for the first time the odds on it happening are no better than even.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistA friend sent me a BBC Scotland video of Jay Lafferty, a Scottish comedian, summing up the Brexit situation almost three years after Britain voted to leave the European Union:“So the way I understand it is that Parliament have said no to Theresa’s deal,” she says, referring to Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain. “And they’ve said no to no deal, but some of them said yes to no deal but no to Theresa’s deal, but not as many that said no to no deal and no to Theresa’s deal, but they don’t actually have a deal of their own, which is a big deal because without a deal then no deal is more likely to be the deal that’s dealt, and the people who want the deal can’t be dealing with that.”Or, as Tom Baldwin, the director of communications for the People’s Vote campaign for a second referendum, put it to me: “The problem with Brexit is not Theresa May. The problem with Brexit is Brexit.”Here we are. Brexit is not doable because it makes no sense, whatever the prime minister’s scattershot efforts or offers to resign. You can hoodwink people — but not if you give them three years to reflect on how they were hoodwinked before doing the deed the hoodwinking was about.The British cannot actually go through with something that will lower their incomes, make them poorer, lose them jobs, drain investment, expose their market to trade deals over which they would have no say, and — just an afterthought — lead to the breakup of Britain.They cannot even if President Trump calls the European Union “brutal” as he enfolds gentle Kim Jong-un of North Korea in a love embrace. To live is also to think again. That is what Britain is doing, confronted by its most important decision in decades.The European Union’s extension of the exit deadline, originally set for March 29, until the end of October looks to me like the beginning of the end of Brexit. It may still happen, but for the first time the odds on it happening are not better than even.The momentum is with the “Remain” camp. More than six million people have signed a petition in favor of staying in the union. A million people recently marched. Brexiteers are defecting. Nick Ferrari, an influential radio broadcaster, announced this month that he’d changed his mind. “Just bloody stay and we’ll move on to other things,” he said. “Enough is enough.”The extension averted the over-the-cliff Brexit favored by Tory hard-liners whose absolutist demands have ensured May’s proposed “deal” (in reality a kick-the-can fudge) never had a chance. It opened up a six-month period of reflection during which all sorts of things could happen. Most are likely to be inimical to Brexit.The cost of this madness is sinking in. As Martin Fletcher asked in The New Statesman: Does anyone seriously believe Britain would have opted to leave if they’d known the result would be a “country supplicant, mocked, humiliated and beset by strife?”Britain will now almost certainly vote in the European Parliament election in May. The pro-European British electorate will show up in force, while the pro-Brexit electorate will be more inclined to sulk. A recent poll suggests the opposition Labour Party leads the Conservatives comfortably, but that support will erode if Labour in its manifesto does not back a second vote on European Union membership.It will be hard to see a pro-Europe vote in the European Parliament as anything other than a gauge of changed British sentiment and grounds for a second referendum.Meanwhile, May will keep trying to find a workable deal. Negotiation with Labour is her latest gambit. Labour wants a customs union with Europe as part of a soft Brexit, an idea that’s anathema to hard-line Tories. It’s also a bad deal in that it leaves Britain signing on to all European Union trade deals while no longer having any say over them.The talks will probably founder. The Tories may try to throw out May in favor of a hard-liner like Boris Johnson. They may force a general election. Either way, they are looking wounded and weakened.Peter Oborne, the former chief political commentator at The Daily Telegraph, has also changed his mind. In a much-noted piece, he recently wrote, “It has become clear to me, though I’ve been a strong Tory Brexiteer, that Britain’s departure from the E.U. will be as great a disaster for our country as the over-mighty unions were in the 1960s and 1970s.”After a devastating analysis of the crippling economic effects of Brexit, Oborne turned to the breakup of Britain. “I failed to understand,” he wrote, “how the E.U. is part of the glue which holds us together in the United Kingdom.”Scotland wants to remain in the union. Northern Ireland does not want a hard border with the Republic of Ireland, a member of the European Union. An open intra-Irish border was a cornerstone of the 21-year-old Good Friday peace agreement. Put bluntly, absent the European Union’s benign offsetting influence, internal tensions in the disunited kingdom would soon reach a breaking point.This, too, has become clear. That round and riveting black hole, a place where everything vanishes like a dream, would be a good final resting place for Brexit.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — To celebrate their first home win in 25 days, the Lakers on Sunday dropped streamers that had been collecting dust from the ceiling at Staples Center. The final lineup of the night included Alex Caruso, a 25-year-old guard who spent most of the season in the N.B.A.’s developmental G League.Caruso knows things were not supposed to be this way. His mere presence — in a crunchtime situation, no less — was a vivid sign that the season had gone sideways for the Lakers, who will be watching the playoffs from various vacation destinations.Caruso also knows that the Lakers are playing fairly meaningless games, including Sunday’s 111-106 victory over the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers (32-41) have nine more of these to go, starting Tuesday against the Washington Wizards. The buzz of LeBron James’s first season as a Laker is gone. The roster will be overhauled again this summer as the franchise, which has not been to the playoffs since 2013, rummages for solutions.“But for me,” Caruso said, “these games are really meaningful.”The Lakers are searching for motivation wherever they can find it, especially as they head toward an off-season of uncertainty. Coach Luke Walton’s job status is tenuous at best, and 10 players on the current roster do not have guaranteed deals for next season. Some of them, like Caruso, are trying to showcase their skills in hopes of acquiring N.B.A. work next season.“I think this little stretch has been really good,” Caruso said, “because it’s finally allowed me to put all that work I’ve put in over the last two years and show how much I’ve evolved as a player. That I’m gaining confidence and making strides to get better and better.” In 16 appearances for the Lakers this season, Caruso has shot 44.6 percent from the field, averaging 6 points and 2.2 rebounds.Even players who figure to be a part of the franchise’s future are focusing on personal growth. A team is always a collection of individuals, but the Lakers’ late-season emphasis on “me” is particularly understandable.“I need to use these games to develop myself and play with the ball more,” the second-year forward Kyle Kuzma said recently.The Lakers were not yet mathematically eliminated from playoff contention when they lost to the Knicks at Madison Square Garden on March 17 — that would happen five days later — but Kuzma stood by his locker in a red leather jumpsuit after the game and spoke about the immediate future.“I’m just trying to use these last 13, 14 games — whatever we have — to just try to develop good habits,” he said. “Season’s pretty much over, so that’s the only thing I can really do. Everyone knows I’m a good scorer and I can do that. I’m just trying to complete my game.”Then there are the injured players who have largely disappeared from view: Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart. For them, the end of this season is about rehabbing for the next one.After all the losses, injuries and general dysfunction, Walton continues to preach the importance of team play. Same as ever.“It starts with our effort and how we play and how we compete,” he said. “And our guys have been doing a nice job of that, even though we haven’t been winning games. Whatever lineups we’ve been putting out there, they’re giving what they have. So that’s the No. 1 thing.”As for James, these are his first truly inconsequential games since his rookie season with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who finished well out of playoff contention. But even then, he could use the end of the season as an opportunity to hone his abilities and gain experience for future endeavors — such as eight consecutive trips to the N.B.A. Finals.So it is a credit to James, even as the grease fire of his first season with the Lakers smolders, that he is out there — trying. Against the Kings, he finished with his 81st career triple-double: 29 points, 11 assists, 11 rebounds. How does he sustain the motivation?“If he’s out there on the court, he’s going to give what he has,” Walton said. “That’s probably a better question for him, but I’m getting to know him, and that’s the type of person he is: He respects and loves the game. So if he’s going to play, he’s going to give what he has.”James said he appreciated the fans who continued to show up. He also said he owed it to himself to play with genuine effort.“I’ve always respected the basketball gods,” James said, “and if I’m on the floor, I got to try to play as hard as I can or do something to affect the game and not cheat the game.”Still, times have changed for the Lakers, who have not been to the playoffs since 2013. Before that, they routinely fixated on the Western Conference standings and the number of wins they would need to make the playoffs. Now, the most important number in their universe is 3 percent — as in, their odds of winning the N.B.A. draft lottery.Then again, the Lakers are not the only team that has so little at stake at this stage of the season. Look no further than the Kings, whose push for a playoff berth has deteriorated in recent weeks. Before Sunday’s game, Coach Dave Joerger held a brief news conference. No one had much to ask.“I can give you some more stuff,” he said. “I mean, it’s sunny out. It’s spring. It smells like March Madness, Lent and the N.B.A. playoffs. Get the seedings, get it done. Exciting times.”He paused again.“Nothing else?” he asked.Nothing else.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRALEIGH, N.C. — They traded punches with Evander Holyfield. They dunked a basketball on ice. They flopped around like beached whales.The Carolina Hurricanes have done plenty of unusual things this season, and here is one more: They are preparing for their first playoff series in a decade.That team dubbed a "bunch of jerks" over their wild, choreographed post-victory celebrations hopes to surge — or, perhaps more fittingly, Storm Surge — all the way to the Stanley Cup.The Hurricanes, who open their first best-of-seven playoff series since 2009 on Thursday night at defending Cup champion Washington, are walking the fine line between savoring their rare-for-them accomplishment while not being completely satisfied with just making the field of 16."You never know when you're going to be back in this situation," 37-year-old captain Justin Williams said, "because making the playoffs is hard — as people in this area know."Oh, do they know.It has been nine seasons since the Hurricanes last skated in a springtime game that mattered. Only two franchises have gone longer between postseason appearances — the Florida Panthers from 2001-11 and the Edmonton Oilers from 2007-16, with each missing the playoffs for 10 straight seasons.Yet first-year coach Rod Brind'Amour isn't just happy to be here."We're certainly expecting more — this isn't what we signed up for," he said. "We all understand it's a huge task, but we're not going into this series not expecting to win, that's for sure."The only current Carolina player who was on the ice for the Hurricanes' last postseason series was center Jordan Staal — who at the time played for Pittsburgh, which swept those Hurricanes in the Eastern Conference finals.To finally end that drought, Carolina changed just about everything, from the players on the ice all the way up to the team owner. Tom Dundon bought a majority stake in the team from longtime owner Peter Karmanos Jr. last January, then promoted Don Waddell to general manager and hired Brind'Amour — who, as captain of the title-winning team in 2006, was the first player to hoist the Stanley Cup — as head coach.Along the way, the team's culture changed. Williams was selected as team captain after a failed experiment last year in which Staal and Justin Faulk shared the captaincy, and the players became more accountable to each other."Guys expect more out of themselves and expect more out of each other," Williams said. "And when we challenge each other to be better players, that's the only way to improve as a team."They're also having more fun after games, thanks to those Storm Surges.Each one started with a slow, exaggerated overhead clap and ended with a different skit or activity. They celebrated March Madness by bringing a portable basketball hoop onto the ice and Trevor van Riemsdyk threw down a one-handed dunk . When Holyfield visited as a guest, they brought him onto the ice and the former boxing champ pretended to spar with Jordan Martinook. They marked Hartford Whalers night by flopping around on the ice like whales.And when veteran hockey broadcaster Don Cherry ripped the celebrations and called the Hurricanes a "bunch of jerks," they turned the insult into a rallying cry — even selling T-shirts with the slogan at the team shop.Even as Williams announced the team's decision to halt the Surges late in the season, he left the door open for their return by calling them "unpredictable."So was this playoff appearance. Just a few months ago, the Hurricanes were 15-17-5 on Dec. 30 and one point out of last place in the East.Since then, they have gone 31-12-2."A lot of people that didn't watch our team all year, they were, 'What happened?' and I don't know that anything happened," Brind'Amour said. "The puck just started to go in. I still think the first 25 games were the best segment of our season, and yet our record didn't show it, so what do I know? ... I can't tell you the change. When pucks started going in, I think you could see they had a little bit more swagger."So now, on a day usually reserved for melting the ice at PNC Arena, they were doing something different to it — placing the playoff logos inside the blue lines.For Williams, who scored the winning goal in Game 7 of Carolina's Cup run 13 years ago and came back before last season to try to bring the franchise back to those heights, it's particularly satisfying."I think the atmosphere's going to be electric," Williams said. "Still to this day, (Game 7 was) one of the loudest buildings I've ever been a part of. And playoff hockey coming back to the area, people are going to be ready. I know that."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFriendly competition can expand the “win” pie and enhance your performance.By Adam GrantA few years ago, an entrepreneur named Wade Eyerly dreamed up an airline that would allow California commuters to fly over heavy traffic. After putting down $1 million in nonrefundable deposits on a fleet of airplanes for his start-up, SurfAir, he was struggling to raise enough money to follow through on the purchase.Mr. Eyerly had been warned that the airline industry was cutthroat and his background prepared him to be especially wary of his adversaries — he was a former spy who had deployed to Iraq as part of the Department of Defense. But his back was against the wall. In an act of desperation, he cold-called a board member at a rival company, JetSuite.We all have rivals in our work lives. They’re our closest competitors; the individuals or groups we’re highly motivated to defeat. Although we often see them as enemies, our rivals can be our greatest allies.You can see this at the extreme in sports. A 2018 study of N.C.A.A. basketball teams found that the better a team’s biggest rival did in March Madness one year, the more games the team won the next year. So, for example, if you’re a U.N.C. fan and the Tar Heels get knocked out of the tournament, the best way to support your team is to (gasp) root for Duke.The same is true in professional baseball and the N.F.L., N.H.L., and N.B.A.: Teams had the best odds in the playoffs the year after their rival won the championship. As Magic Johnson said in the heat of the Lakers-Celtics rivalry: “When the new schedule would come out each year, I’d grab it and circle the Boston games. To me, it was ‘The Two’ and the other 80.”It’s true for individuals, too. Research shows that long-distance runners are about 5 seconds per kilometer faster when one of their top rivals is in the race. Competing against a rival fires up your motivation. If you build a supportive relationship with that rival, it can elevate your performance further.The 2017 New York City Marathon champion Shalane Flanagan doesn’t just train with her rivals. She actually helps them in competition. In the 2016 Olympic trials, Ms. Flanagan slowed down to help her rival and training partner, Amy Cragg.“Shalane helped me every step of the way to give me the best possible chance of making that team,” Ms. Cragg explained on my podcast, WorkLife. “The goal was to make that Olympic team together.”The Norwegian Alpine skiing team takes it even further. At the Olympics, the skiers who race first share a course report by radio with their teammates, giving them tips on how to handle the slopes and turns.[Like what you’re reading? Sign up here for the Smarter Living newsletter to get stories like this (and much more!) delivered straight to your inbox every Monday morning.]This kind of collaboration isn’t supposed to happen in skiing or running. They’re individual sports: success is zero-sum. If I want to win, I should do everything in my power to make sure they lose. But these elite athletes understand something that’s true in every walk of life: Friendly competition can expand the overall “win” pie and enhance your performance.Supportive rivalries are more likely to develop when you share a group identity with your competitors. Mr. Eyerly, the entrepreneur, recognized that when he was trying to bail out his start-up, SurfAir. He knew JetSuite, his biggest rival, was a fellow scrappy innovator in a bureaucratic industry.“That meant we were kindred spirits, and if I could take risks he couldn’t — we’d both learn from it,” he said.Mr. Eyerly’s cold call to the board led him to a member of JetSuite’s founding team, Alex Wilcox. Within a week, Mr. Wilcox had helped him secure the financing he needed.“Imagine McDonald’s bailing Wendy’s out of a jam by helping them raise money — from their own investors!” Mr. Eyerly said. “Sometimes the only people who understand what you’re building are your ‘competitors.’ If you expect everyone is looking to put a knife in your back, you’ll miss the folks looking to put their arm around you and encourage you on your way.”Adam Grant, an organizational psychologist at Wharton, is the author of “Originals.” For more on becoming friends with your rivals, listen to WorkLife With Adam Grant, a TED original podcast on the science of making work not suck. You can find WorkLife on Apple Podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byArt ReviewBy Roberta SmithThe ADAA Art Show has made a smart move, scheduling its annual occupation of the Park Avenue Armory a week before the March Madness of New York’s art fairs. Those who give it their undivided attention, without pressure of competing events, will be richly rewarded. This year’s incarnation is the 30th gathering organized by the Art Dealers Association of America and it overflows with interesting material, new and not, in solo and group presentations. Herewith, some tips to help you navigate your way.The latest work by several artists shines in solo shows. At Casey Kaplan Jonathan Gardner continues to cultivate his stylized figurative, still life and landscape painting, in beautiful colors and multiple spatial shifts. He could be our Fernand Léger. At David Nolan the artist Wardell Milan reprises his recent breakthrough into panoramic, subtly dystopian paintings of figures in gardens, building on his drawing skill with color, collage and a touches of Cubism. At Van Doren Waxter, Jackie Saccoccio’s latest abstractions effervesce more than ever with dots and carefully directed drips, suggesting windows onto worlds of atomized color. Marian Goodman is showing the exquisitely pastel pods of the sculptor Nairy Baghramian, each fastened to the floor or wall by a black stem, creating a delicious distortion of scale. Sperone Westwater is spotlighting the work of Otto Piene (1928-2014), a founder of Germany’s Zero group, who made his minimalist forms in glamorous glazed ceramic during his last years.Several galleries have solo shows of older material often never seen before (or not lately). In three instances works from the 1960s or ’70s underscore the achievements of distinguished female artists. Anglim Gilbert has an extraordinary trove of mostly delicate drawings of women’s bodies by the pioneering Lynn Hershman Leeson; all were discovered when the artist recently moved house. At Paul Kasmin: Jane Freilicher’s silken paintings of self-possessed nudes add stunningly to her excursions still life and landscape. Fergus McCaffrey has brought back a series of painting-reliefs by the Italian artist Carol Rama from her recent show at the New Museum, where their truth-to-materials toughness was sometimes lost in the sexual extravagance of her watercolors and etchings.One of the standouts in this group is Hirschl & Adler’s tribute to Frank Walter, the polymorphous, self-taught Antiguan genius — painter, sculptor, composer, writer — included in Antigua and Barbuda’s inaugural participation in the 2017 Venice Biennale. This display touches all bases and includes a family tree, with the artist tracing his ancestry back to Charlemagne. Other don’t-miss moments include, at Washburn, some newly discovered drawings by Myron Stout from the early ’50s showing Provincetown dunes and trees in quick jagged lines. Pavel Zoubok is showing little-known collages from the late 1950s and early ’60s by the American expatriate painter Janice Biala (1903-2000) that ambitiously conjure Abstract Expressionist gestures in collages incorporating cut paper.At Alexander Gray, Harmony Hammond’s prescient Weave paintings of the mid-1970s add a subversive domestic twist to the modernist monochrome. And three dealers present distinctive abstract paintings from the late 1980s and early ’90s: at Michael Rosenfeld,  William T. Williams achieves the colors of Byzantine icons and the solidity of fortress walls; at Lelong, the fiery compositions of Mildred Thompson (1936-2003) spin Kandinsky toward still-unknown galaxies; and at Peter Freeman, Mel Bochner’s early post-conceptual forays into (shaped) painting build intensity with jousting, improvised lines, rather than — as currently — with words.This year’s most plentiful American modernists include Marsden Hartley, Milton Avery, Oscar Bluemner and Charles Burchfield. Start with one of the show’s stars: Hartley’s magnificent 1932 Mexican landscape, “Lost Country — Petrified Sand Hills” at Menconi + Schoelkopf; its ocher hills, blue sky and white clouds have the simple force of a bull’s-eye. Additional works by these masters await at Meredith Ward Fine Art, Donald Morris and Yares Art, whose all-Avery display starts with a view of white waves and azure ocean that registers even from a distance.Bluemner’s prismatic red barns abound, but some may prefer a gentle watercolor of a red cabin at Debra Force. Also here, Man Ray’s 1925 “Still Life With Banjo” shows the touchingly awkward searcher who preceded the suave Surrealist. Thomas Colville’s packed display offers a small unusual Charles Burchfield watercolor, nature in Japonisme mode. The James Reinish booth is blanketed with works by artists exhibited by Alfred Stieglitz, including his own photographs, a small, excellent, nearly abstract nocturne by Georgia O’Keeffe and a 1908 tribute to Cezanne’s bathers by Abraham Walkowitz. Hirschl & Adler’s tribute to the Museum of Modern Art’s 1943 exhibition “American Realists and Magic Realists” is dotted with forgotten names, recalling the museum’s laissez-faire beginnings. Also here: a snapshot-size watercolor of farm buildings by Charles Sheeler that is perfection.Mexican and Latin American art are represented at Mary-Anne Martin, with an enchanting display of Gunther Gerzso’s ink caricatures, Diego Rivera’s studies of artworks in European museums and Leonora Carrington’s studies of heads, mostly, in wispy pencil. And at Sicardi|Ayers|Bacino you’ll find a riveting Op Art painting by Carlos Cruz-Diez of Venezuela from 1974, and, by the Brazilian Hélio Oiticica, a tribute to Jean Arp’s dropped-paper collages exquisitely rendered in gouache on cardboard.Some stalls, with their sparse displays, provide welcome rest for the eyes. At Matthew Marks the offerings include a tiny collage by Ellsworth Kelly, a suite of prints by Terry Winters, a vivid gouache by Anne Truitt and, from Martin Puryear, a 2009 bronze head whose subtle shape and reticent features retain the textures of the original carved wood. At Bortolami, four sculptures by Ann Veronica Janssens keep things minimal and light — one is an iridescent leaning piece made from two sheets of shatterproof glass and some cellophane. (Don’t try this at home.)Other booths have single works that are so compelling it’s hard to look at anything else. A 1960 untitled Tony Smith painting of a curling geometric presence in red and dusty pink on black is commanding at Pace. At Galerie St. Etienne, Max Beckmann’s nearly life-size “Portrait of Irma Simon” (1924) overpowers. Jonathan Boos offers a big 1962 abstraction in black and white on green by Charles Green Shaw, one of the trust-funded Park Avenue Cubists, that is a startling surprise..You don’t expect sensory overload from Chelsea types. Nonetheless, the 303 Gallery gave the multi-dexterous Mary Heilmann the run of its booth, filled with her ceramics, furniture and paintings in tones of red and pink. Luhring Augustine has a terrific group show of sculptures by artists including Lygia Clark, Rachel Whiteread and Christopher Wool spread across two tall tables. And David Zwirner continues its 25th-anniversary celebration with a floor-to-ceiling, something-for-everyone hang of works by 50 artists. Among many notable efforts is Josh Smith’s festive depiction of Death — in an ornamented frame that borders on the living end.Another batch of small fine drawings, these by the Sudanese artist Ibrahim El-Salahi, commands the back wall at Salon 94. In a two-artist show at Locks Gallery, Joseph Cornell overshadows Thomas Chimes, but don’t miss the latter’s small fine paintings, including one based on the famous photograph of Marcel Duchamp as Adam, in fig-leaf and wristwatch. Peter Blum is showcasing the poignant photographs of everyday life taken by the French avant-garde filmmaker Chris Marker in North Korea in 1957, as the country was sealing itself off from the world.Other Art Fair OfferingsThe ADAA Art Show kicks off a month of art fairs in New York. Here are the period’s major fairs, most of which focus on modern and contemporary art:• Spring/Break Art Show, springbreakartshow.com, March 7-11• The Armory Show, thearmoryshow.com, the pier-located exhibition, March 8-11• NADA NY, newartdealers.org, March 8-11• Volta NY, ny.voltashow.com, March 8-11• Independent Art Fair NY, independenthq.com, March 9-11• Scope NY, scope-art.com, March 8-11• Art on Paper, thepaperfair.com, March 9-11• Collective Design Fair, collectivedesignfair.com, March 9-11• Asia Week, asiaweekny.com, March 15-24• Affordable Art Fair, affordableartfair.com, March 22-25ADAA Art ShowThrough March 4, Park Avenue Armory, Manhattan; artdealers.org.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCompanies and trade groups had implored British leaders to give them reassurances and information. They say they can’t wait any longer. By Amie TsangBusinesses have been sounding the alarm over Britain’s impending departure from the European Union ever since its approval in a 2016 referendum. But this week, with lawmakers unable to agree on any sort of orderly plan as the March deadline for a deal nears, their warnings rang louder — and some decided to act.Airbus and Bentley called the prospect of Brexit without an agreement a “killer” and a “disgrace.” Sony, concerned about Brexit-generated disruptions, said it would move its European headquarters from Surrey to the Netherlands. Other companies are furiously stockpiling supplies, while civil servants are scrambling to prepare for emergency arrangements. While politicians may yet pull together a deal before March 29, analysts say businesses have run out of time. The precarious state of affairs is already damaging the economy. “Until the middle of last year, it was a slow burn — we lost about 2 to 3 percent of output,” said Amit Kara, head of British macroeconomic research at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. “My feeling is it has gathered a little bit of pace since then.” Manufacturers are increasingly reluctant to invest in uncertain political and economic conditions, according to a survey published this week by the Confederation of British Industry, and some business leaders are going public with their frustration. “They’re breaking cover because they’re feeling close to the edge at this point,” said Jonathan Portes, a professor of economics and public policy at King’s College London. Airbus, which employs about 14,000 people in Britain making wings for its aircraft, said that if the country left the European Union with no deal, supply-chain disruptions would force it to look to move its factories elsewhere.“Make no mistake: There are plenty of countries out there who would love to build the wings for Airbus aircraft,” Tom Enders, the chief executive, said in a video posted on YouTube this week. The British transportation industry imports a large portion of its parts from the European Union and sells a large portion of its products there. Airbus warned last summer that a Brexit without a replacement deal could cost it more than $1 billion a week. In his video, Mr. Enders called it a “disgrace” that businesses still did not have enough information to make plans. “Please don’t listen to the Brexiteers’ madness which asserts that, because we have huge plants here, we will not move and we will always be here,” he said, referring to supporters of Brexit. “They are wrong.” Since Parliament defeated Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan last week, lawmakers have been battling over a second, similar plan she presented. Mrs. May has refused to rule out leaving the European Union without an agreement, gambling that lawmakers will back her rather than allow that possibility.“The U.K. is not and cannot be ready for a ‘no deal’ Brexit,” Carolyn Fairbairn, the director general of the Confederation of British Industry, said Tuesday. “Only Parliament can avoid it, and now is the time to do so.” The chief executive of the Civil Service, John Manzoni, conceded that his organization would not be fully prepared. “Will things be a bit bumpy? Of course, they will,” Mr. Manzoni said Tuesday at the Institute for Government, a British policy group. The chief executive of Bentley, Adrian Hallmark, told Reuters on Tuesday that his luxury car company had been headed for a turnaround after a year of losses, but that political events could scupper its plans. “It’s Brexit that’s the killer,” he said. Another carmaker, Jaguar Land Rover, confirmed on Thursday that it would pause production for a week in April to deal with potential disruptions. Companies are planning stockpiles of parts and supplies — if they can find room. The United Kingdom Warehousing Association surveyed its members last month and said three-quarters were already full and unable to take on more business. Many businesses also do not have the money to stockpile and prepare, said Mr. Kara of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. “If we did have a hard Brexit, the shock would be quite significant,” he added. UK in a Changing Europe, a research group, has estimated that leaving without a deal could reduce Britain’s gross domestic product per capita by as much as 8.7 percent over 10 years from what it would be if the nation remained in the bloc. “What you see here is a bit of frustration that the U.K. government could have handled it so badly and ignored the concerns of business,” said Mr. Portes of King’s College London, who is also a senior fellow at UK in a Changing Europe. Even if an agreement is reached in time, the turmoil of the debate will have a lasting impact, he said.Airbus has made it clear that “when it comes to the next big investment decision, the U.K. is not going to be on the list,” Mr. Portes said. “In the medium to long term, it’s clear that it’ll have a large negative effect on any future investment.” Foreign direct investment in Britain is already 19 percent lower than it would have been had the referendum not happened, according to researchers at the University of Sussex. Dyson, the home appliances company, denied on Tuesday that its decision to  relocate move its headquarters from England to Singapore was related to Brexit, but few saw it as a vote of confidence for the business environment in Britain. And Brexit might not be the only challenge for the British economy, Mr. Kara said. The global economy is slowing, and Britain is likely to be vulnerable should there be another shock to it, he said.“It’s like a country that has an armed force that is able to battle on one front, but if another front opens up, we are certainly more vulnerable than many other countries,” he said. ​Amie Tsang is a general assignment business reporter based in London, where she has covered a variety of topics, including the gender pay gap, aviation and the London Fatberg.  @amietsang AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.In his first new episode of “The Late Show” since Robert Mueller delivered his report to Attorney General Robert Barr, Stephen Colbert did his best to balance frustration with humility.“Fair is fair,” he said. “Barr says Mueller says there was no collusion between Trump and Russia, so we have to cross collusion off the list of reasons Trump is unfit to be president.”Then Colbert got literal. “Fellas, bring out the board,” he cried, and out came a whiteboard filled with a list of controversial things Trump has said or done.Reading through items like “put kids in cages,” “gave security clearance to his son-in-law,” “repeatedly humped flag” and “all that birther stuff,” Colbert eventually found his way to “colluded with Russia,” and erased it. A list with dozens of other items remained.Then he flipped the board over, revealing another list on the opposite side. “I really want to be fair to him. I should also cross off ‘Mueller’ from the list of Trump investigations,” Colbert said, now revealing a list of the 17 legal investigations into Trump by New York’s attorney general, various House committees and other government bodies.Colbert erased the Mueller investigation from this list. “Sir, it’s gone,” he announced to Trump. “That must be 1/17th of a weight off your shoulders.”The report, which has not been released but was summarized in a four-page document by the attorney general, found no evidence that President Trump colluded directly with Russia during the presidential campaign. But on the question of whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller came to no conclusion, stating, “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.”Trump seemed not to have read the second part of that sentence. Speaking to reporters on Sunday about the report, he declared: “It was a complete and total exoneration.” Colbert couldn’t countenance that.“Trump does not understand the simplest of concepts! ‘You know, I just tried some I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter. It’s total and complete butter. I tell ya, I can’t believe how much it is butter!’” — STEPHEN COLBERTOn “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” a running gag came to a head on Monday with Kimmel showing a video of Washington State’s attorney general and the dean of Gonzaga University’s law school pledging that Gonzaga is, indeed, a real school.All last week, as March Madness got underway, Jimmy Kimmel kept insisting — in what felt increasingly like a parody of fringe-radio conspiracy theorists — that he thinks Gonzaga is a fake university made up to win basketball tournaments.Kimmel refused to back down on Monday, even with the video from the dean, and a little later on, he cut to a conversation with another supposed member of Gonzaga’s administration: Chancellor Gonzo Aga (played by Fred Willard). This time, the administrator admitted he was making it all up.As the set fell down around him, he admitted that he was actually broadcasting from the basement of a Fuddrucker’s.“Deep down, didn’t we know Trump probably didn’t collude with Russia because he could never pull that off? And even if he did collude, it probably would have been by accident. Putin wanted him in there and did what he had to do. Basically, Trump got in the White House the same way Lori Loughlin got her kid into USC.” — JIMMY KIMMEL“It really is astonishing: The day after Trump skates on collusion, Michael Avenatti is arrested. I mean, all they have to do now is replace the bald eagle with a fried chicken and this’ll be the best week of the president’s life.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to Avenatti’s arrest on extortion charges“Wow, wow. He sent out a tweet and then 14 minutes later, they arrested him. It sounds like everyone’s fantasy of what should have happened to Donald Trump. It’s also an odd reminder to turn off your location whenever you tweet.” — TREVOR NOAH, describing Avenatti’s arrestJimmy Fallon taped the entirety of his show on a cellphone, and it allowed him to travel throughout New York City. One stop he made was in the middle of the Brooklyn Bridge, where he sang a bit of doo-wop with members of the Roots.Noah on the Mueller report’s findings: “A lot of us were expecting something different. It’s a little bit like coming down the stairs on Christmas morning — you were hoping for a brand-new BMX but instead you find Santa’s dead body.”Conan O’Brien will cross enemy lines again to visit Stephen Colbert on “The Late Show” on Tuesday for the second time in two months.One of this year’s most haunting vocal performances isn’t by a singer. It’s by Lupita Nyong’o in “Us.”Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe real hoops drama is in Europe.By Zach MessitteMr. Messitte is writing a book about Americans playing basketball in Italy.MILAN — As the National Basketball Association plods its way to the 68th annual All-Star Game in Charlotte, N.C., on Sunday, American hoops fans should take note of how the Italians generate hardwood drama in February.Since Thursday, the eight best teams in Italy’s Lega Basket Serie A from the first half of the season have been competing for the Coppa Italia, a no-holds-barred, single elimination tournament whose outcome actually matters to fans, players, team owners and corporate sponsors. And while a champion will be crowned at the end of the playoffs later this spring, bragging rights for holding the Coppa’s trophy aloft on Sunday provides a midseason shot of adrenaline.The N.B.A.’s 82-game regular season, which began in October and will end in April, is a slog. Anyone who has watched a Wednesday night non-marquee matchup in November can attest to that. The action rarely begins before the fourth quarter; coaches rest their superstars.The first half of the Italian season, by contrast, is an exciting sprint from the opening tipoff. The 16-team league has a 30-game regular season in which each club plays each other twice — once at each other’s home court. If you play in Venice in week one, Venice’s team comes to your arena in week 16. And there’s drama: Turin, seeded fifth in last year’s Coppa, won the trophy, even though they placed 11th at the end of the season.There’s an intensity to the Italian regular season that too often is missing from the N.B.A.’s long fall and winter games. Not only are there fewer games, but also they are shorter and quicker (10- as opposed to 12-minute quarters and with fewer play stoppages mandated by television). And even if the quality of play in Italy is inferior, the interest in the February Coppa Italia far outstrips whether Team LeBron will prevail over Team Giannis at the N.B.A.’s All-Star Game.“Whether it is game six or 26, you are always playing for something,” said Travis Diener, an American who also holds Italian citizenship and plays on this year’s fourth-seeded team from Cremona. “Then you get the Coppa and anything can happen.” Diener, who spent several years in the N.B.A., won the M.V.P. award of the Coppa Italia when he was playing for Sassari in Sardinia in 2014.The Coppa allows teams from smaller markets (and smaller budgets) like Sassari and Cremona (more famous for Stradivarius violins than hoops) to pull off March Madness-like upsets against more glamorous squads like Milan, which is sponsored by Giorgio Armani and takes full advantage of the lack of a league salary cap.In last year’s Coppa, Milan was one of three top seeds that lost in the first round, much to the delight of fans from smaller-market teams like Cantù, which plays in the Milanese suburb of Desio. As one team official told me, it doesn’t hurt that coaches have built-in salary incentives if their team does well at the midseason tournament — and sponsors, of course, love the positive brand attention of a winning squad.The quarterfinal round began on Thursday and Friday, featuring a doubleheader each day: Milan-Bologna and Cremona-Varese on day one, and Venice-Sassari and Avellino-Brindisi on day two. American fans should try to imagine a similar midseason weekend tournament: What if the Bucks, Warriors, Raptors, Nuggets, Celtics, Pacers, Thunder and 76ers were playing in Charlotte this weekend for bragging rights to an American Basketball Cup? It would be a fresh take on a tired All-Star Game whose television ratings have declined by more than 50 percent since the Michael Jordan-dominated 1990s.The Italian basketball league used to have its own all-star game, but there wasn’t enough sustained interest from players or fans, so it ended in 2016. A dunk contest was similarly discontinued. Giorgio Gandolfi, a former basketball journalist who now runs his own international sports agency and who has been to 13 N.B.A. All-Star Games, said that winning the Coppa Italia is second in prestige only to winning the league championship at the end of the season. He doesn’t miss Italy’s all-star games. “They were just kind of boring,” he said.While there is too much money to be made for the N.B.A. — and team owners — to consider shortening the season from the grueling 82-game march to the playoffs, the idea of borrowing from the Italians to make each tipoff count more should be enticing.Take the case of the New York Knicks, who currently hold the worst record in the N.B.A. There is nothing much left for the Knicks to play for or their fans to watch this season.By contrast, Italian basketball teams near the bottom of the league run the risk of relegation to the second division, which is a bad result for everyone. That’s why the fight near the end of the season can be just as fierce at the bottom as it is as the top.If the Knicks had to worry about being consigned to the minor leagues, the folks at Madison Square Garden might think differently about how to handle the final months of the season. If the Knicks were demoted to play against the Maine Red Claws, New York fans would probably have some choice words and creative hand gestures for their team’s poor management. Italian basketball fans would have some advice on how to do that better, too.Zach Messitte, the president of Ripon College in Wisconsin, is on sabbatical as an associate fellow at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Bologna. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Hilarie M. SheetsVincent van Gogh’s visceral, vibrant paintings and difficult life, which led him to kill himself at age 37 in 1890, have had an enduring hold on the public.“He is an unusual combination of someone whose art has an instant appeal to people and a human interest story that is astonishing,” said van Gogh expert Martin Bailey, author of “Starry Night: Van Gogh at the Asylum.” “You can see the enormous appetite for van Gogh growing certainly by the decade and almost by the year.”At least nine exhibitions on the Dutch artist are in the works at museums around the world, including three opening this month in Houston, London and Amsterdam. This confluence has exacerbated the difficulty curators have always had in getting loans of prized van Goghs.“You have to almost fight for every single one,” said Mr. Bailey, co-curator of “The EY Exhibition: Van Gogh and Britain” opening at Tate Britain on March 27. It will look at the early influence of British art and literature on van Gogh, who moved to London when he was 20 to work for a gallery before he set out to become an artist, and then the later importance of his art on 20th-century British painters, most notably Francis Bacon.Other shows include a look at van Gogh’s reception in Germany, opening in October in Frankfurt at the Städel Museum, and in America, an exhibition will open next year at the Detroit Institute of Arts.The most important loan negotiated for the Tate Britain show is van Gogh’s 1888 “Sunflowers” from London’s National Gallery. It is one of five still lifes the artist made of the flowers, and it is the gallery’s No. 1 attraction (as measured by throngs of people around it and postcards sold). Now it will be seen in the specific context of its influence on Britain.“Museums are reluctant to part with those works that are often among the most popular, and people expect to see them there,” said Nienke Bakker, senior curator of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, the largest repository of the artist’s works, with 200 of his approximately 850 paintings and some 500 of his 1,500 drawings.While her institution is lending works to all the coming shows, it is in small numbers — with the exception of a trove of paintings and drawings going to “Vincent van Gogh: His Life in Art” which opened on Sunday at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. With the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo — the second largest collection of van Gogh worldwide — the two Dutch institutions are lending 50 works to Houston for its full-career survey, supplemented by a dozen works from other public and private collections.“Ours is the only show that traces van Gogh from his tentative beginnings in 1880, when he seriously decided to become an artist, to his extraordinary final works,” said David Bomford, head of European art at the Houston museum and curator of the exhibition. “The change in confidence and in style is staggering — the speed with which he becomes a competent and then a brilliant draftsman in his Dutch period.”The show follows van Gogh to Paris, where he adapted Impressionism to his own devices, and then to Provence, where his signature radiant palette materializes.Singular to van Gogh is his prolific correspondence, some 800 remaining letters he wrote almost daily during this period to his brother Theo and fellow artists, which is a factor in the public’s fascination with him. “We see his life from the inside,” Mr. Bomford said. “We know exactly what his thoughts were, his preoccupations were, his obsessions were.”The curator is particularly excited with the Van Gogh Museum’s loans of “The Old Church Tower at Nuenen,” the artist’s second great early masterpiece after “The Potato Eaters” (which doesn’t travel), and a key portrait of van Gogh’s lover Agostina Segatori, a proprietress of a cafe in Montmartre in Paris.At the Van Gogh Museum, committed to showing how van Gogh is still relevant to artists today, “Hockney — Van Gogh: The Joy of Nature” opened earlier this month. It looks at van Gogh as an inspiration for David Hockney, the 81-year-old British painter, in terms of their shared devotion to nature, high-keyed palettes and experimental perspectives. It is one of the biggest shows with a contemporary artist at the museum, with more than 100 works by Mr. Hockney, many coming directly from the artist.Another show there in June showcases the museum’s recently restored “Sunflowers.” This version was painted in January 1889, a month after the artist mutilated his ear. “Van Gogh was not someone who was satisfied very easily, but he thought that with the sunflowers he had really done something good,” Ms. Bakker said.The museum, which will present its findings from the technical research as part of the show, announced in January the painting will no longer travel because of its fragility.“It’s great to be involved in all these shows around the world because our main goal is to tell the story about the artist,” Ms. Bakker said of the lineup of exhibitions. These also include projects on van Gogh’s inner circle of family, friends and models at the Noordbrabants Museum in Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands; on his still lifes at the Museum Barberini in Potsdam, Germany; and on the artists he admired most at the Santa Barbara Museum of Art in California.“We really try to get away from the clichés,” Ms. Bakker said. “The idea that van Gogh was creating all these fantastic works in a fit of madness is not at all true. When you read his letters, it is very clear he was working methodically to master his craft. He was trying to become an artist and had the kind of struggles that all artists have. A lot of people can identify strongly with the person and therefore also with the art.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSpencer Haywood set the stage, Michael Jordan made it bigger and Kevin Durant super-sized it when he helped usher in the one-and-done era. Decades after those players made their groundbreaking departures from college, March Madness and the NBA's mega-millions have taken all the novelty out of leaving early for the pros.In the present era of one-and-done — a system that begat college programs that cater to kids in search of a one-year stopover instead of a diploma — the decision about whether to take off early for the NBA isn't so much one of 'if' but 'when' for hundreds of players every year.An Associated Press analysis of NCAA Tournament rosters over the last three decades shows the ever-expanding impact that early entry, and especially the one-and-done player, has had on both the college game and the NBA draft.In 2005, the year before the one-and-done rule went into effect, there were nine high schoolers and one freshman drafted. Last season, there were no high schoolers, and 13 of the first 18 picks were one-and-done.In the first year the AP studied, 1989, there were 13 early entries, five of whom played in the NCAA Tournament. Only one player drafted by the NBA that year was a freshman, Shawn Kemp. (The future six-time NBA All Star never played college basketball after eligibility issues at Kentucky and a transfer to a junior college.)The rules could be changing again soon.The NBA is considering doing away with the rule prohibiting players under 19 from being drafted, and the league is trying to come up with a new system. But it doesn't want to return to the days of the 1990s and early 2000s, when unprepared high schoolers were drafted early, many of them never developing into stars or even role players. Whatever the change, it figures to have a considerable impact on the college game, though nobody is sure exactly what the impact will be."I think kids should go right to the NBA," says Kentucky coach John Calipari, who has become the leading advocate of one-and-done, and the security it has brought to many college players and their families. "But there's probably (only) five or six or seven that are ready to do that, and even half of those will probably spend time in the (developmental) G League."It wasn't always like this.Haywood's decision to leave the University of Detroit in 1969 for the then-ascending ABA was considered revolutionary at the time. A year later, when he signed with the NBA's Seattle SuperSonics, he won a Supreme Court case against the league, which had sued for violating the rule that players couldn't enter the league until they were four years removed from high school.Haywood's victory set precedent, even if it didn't exactly open the floodgates. Through the 1970s, a handful, sometimes up to a dozen, underclassmen entered each year into a league where a decent salary was only starting to reach into six figures. Some early entries from that era: Moses Malone, Bernard King, Reggie Theus.Magic Johnson came out after his sophomore year, in 1979, and along with Larry Bird helped take the NBA to new heights.By the time Jordan left North Carolina after the 1984 season — one of nine underclassmen, along with Charles Barkley and Hakeem Olajuwon, to declare that year — the NBA was introducing a salary cap, at $3.6 million a team, and the NCAA was expanding the field in its tournament to 64 teams.Neither the pros nor what essentially became its unofficial minor league, college basketball, have looked back since.Today, the cap stands at nearly $102 million and the number of players who came out early ballooned to 236 last year. Only 42 got drafted.In between Haywood and 2018, early entry became more the norm than the exception.In the early 1990s, the Fab Five and Michigan helped introduce baggy shorts and hip-hop into basketball. But in a wide-ranging recruiting scandal that resulted in most of their victories being wiped off the official books, Chris Webber, booster Ed Martin and the rest afforded college hoops a preview of the havoc that the growing influence of cash — with boosters, shoe companies and club coaches all playing a role in its distribution — could wreak on the sport.With no restrictions and plenty of opportunities, high schoolers started taking the dip more regularly. But for every Kevin Garnett — the player who triggered the teens-to-NBA onslaught in 1995 — or LeBron James, there were even more like Kwame Brown, a top pick who turned into a bust or, even worse, Taj McDavid, who thought he could go from high school to the NBA, but never got a sniff.That brought about the one-and-done rule.Established in 2006, the year before Durant entered the draft and helped push the issue to the front-and-center of the basketball conversation, the rule forced players to wait a year after high school to enter the NBA. Most chose to use that year playing college ball, and Calipari wasn't the only coach willing to cater to them.These days, "one-and-done" is often used as catch-all for everything wrong with college basketball.With the FBI getting involved in sorting out the connection between money, shoes and hoops — a job many think the NCAA should be doing instead of law enforcement — the NBA is rethinking one-and-done, trying to come up with a system that will better serve the game."It's going to happen," says Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, one of those who has taken greatest advantage of the system.A new framework could be in play by the 2022 draft. But what that system will bring is the multimillion-dollar question hovering over the game for the next three years."Tell me the environment that we're going to be in," Krzyzewski said. "We don't know that environment. I don't know how a youngster will be taken care of."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byVirginia 80, Purdue 75 | OvertimeBy Joe DepaoloLOUISVILLE, Ky. — They could hear the whispers. One year after taking one of the most infamous defeats in N.C.A.A. tournament history by becoming the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16 seed, the Virginia Cavaliers came back stronger than ever. They won the Atlantic Coast Conference regular season, and still there were skeptics. Earning the No. 1 seed in the South Region did little to quiet them.They play ugly, the critics said. They do not have the offense to prevail in a key tournament game. Sure, they can play defense, but that won’t be enough in March.After a first-round scare against Gardner-Webb, yet another No. 16 seed, the cries grew louder. No way could this squad cut down the nets in Louisville. No way could Virginia make it to Minneapolis and the Final Four.Oh, how wrong those skeptics were. Virginia, in an overtime thriller, turned back third-seeded Purdue, 80-75, to punch its ticket.“I don’t care about the critics,” Cavaliers Coach Tony Bennett said, adding: “I just know it was really hard to lose in the first round. It stung. It was, as I said, a painful gift. It was so humbling but it drew me and drew our team closer in a way we couldn’t have gone.”It first appeared as if the game would be played at Purdue’s pace. Both teams scored on their first four possessions, with Purdue taking an 11-8 lead just 3 minutes 30 seconds in. And a Virginia team that had allowed more than 70 points only three times this season appeared to be on its way to yielding far more.But the hot shooting soon ceased, and empty trips became the norm. Virginia scored just 4 points in 7:13, which allowed Purdue to edge clear and take a 22-12 lead. The double-digit advantage prompted raucous “Boiler Up!” chants from the Purdue faithful. They sensed a foe on the ropes, a quick knockout in the offing.The Cavaliers, though, clamped down, giving up just 8 points over the last 9:46 of the first half to get back in the contest. Even Ryan Cline — the Purdue senior guard who seemed as if he could not miss during Thursday night’s regional semifinal, and who on Saturday picked up where he had left off — began to cool off. Only Carsen Edwards found success for the Boilermakers on offense in the first half, putting up 16 points en route to a game-high 42.“Never do I feel like I’m choosing to carry the team,” Edwards said. “It’s just I felt good and had rhythm on the shots I was taking, and they were just able to go in.”Little by little, Virginia ate into the deficit, whittling it to 1 at halftime, 30-29. The Cavaliers survived a poor shooting half from one of their key scorers, Kyle Guy, who went just 1 for 6. They also nearly lost him when he took a bad step and was left clutching his ankle and writhing in pain. But Guy, a junior guard, made it to the sideline and was able to return after his ankle had been taped up.Good thing for Virginia, because Guy found his stroke coming out of the locker room. One 3-pointer. Then another. Then another. The Cavaliers, once 10 behind, were now 7 points to the good — leading by 41-34 with 15:18 to play.But Edwards was inspired to match Guy’s sharpshooting with a 3-point hat trick of his own — on three straight trips, to boot. After the last of them, which brought Purdue to 50-46, Edwards turned to the Boilermakers’ contingent and offered a nod of acknowledgment. He was determined to carry his squad across the finish line.So too was Guy, who finished with 25 points. Back and forth the two stars went. For a time, it seemed as if they were the only two on the floor. They made shots from everywhere.“He’s got nothing to hang his head on.” Guy said of Edwards, calling him a “bad dude.”Guy added that it was a “performance for the ages by him, and by both teams.”After trailing for almost all of the second half, Purdue took the lead on a rare Edwards miss, as Nojel Eastern corralled the rebound and laid it in, giving the Boilermakers a 64-63 edge with 3:59 remaining.Virginia reclaimed the advantage, but Edwards banked home a 3-pointer to put Purdue up, 69-67, with 1:10 left. Purdue appeared to have the contest under control after Grady Eifert hauled in an offensive rebound with 19 seconds to play. The superb-shooting Cline was fouled with a chance to make it a two-possession game. But a miss kept Virginia alive, trailing by 70-67. Purdue Coach Matt Painter ordered his club to foul, putting Ty Jerome on the line for the Cavaliers with 5.9 seconds to play.What followed? Madness. After Jerome made the first free throw, the second clanked off the iron and bounded into the backcourt — where Kihei Clark chased it down for Virginia. Clark took two quick dribbles and then launched a rocket of a pass nearly 50 feet downcourt, where it was cradled by the junior forward Mamadi Diakite. And just before the clock hit 0.0, Diakite drained an 8-foot jumper to, unfathomably, square the contest at 70-70.“We had the ball in the guy’s hands that we wanted. Clark had the ball,” Painter said, adding, “With that being said, he made an unbelievable play to find Diakite.”On to overtime, and the game slowed down to Virginia’s preferred pace. Neither team gained separation, with the margin at less than 2 for much of the extra period. A layup by De’Andre Hunter put the Cavaliers ahead by 76-75, with 26 seconds to play.There was no doubt who would take the last shot for Purdue. It was Edwards. But the stifling defense of the Cavaliers owned the moment. And Edwards’s 3-point heave clanked harmlessly off the iron with eight seconds left.The crowd, predominantly filled with Purdue fans, fell into a hush. And Virginia, finishing with four free throws, silenced its doubters.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by‘Samaritans,’ an evocative show by 16 artists; Bonnie Collura’s ‘princes’; Carol Rama’s arresting watercolors; and Rachelle Mozman Solano’s takes on Gauguin.Through March 3. Galerie Eva Presenhuber, 39 Great Jones Street, Manhattan; 212-931-0711, presenhuber.com.An orange cat turns its mask-like face to the viewer in Joan Brown’s 1985 painting “The Golden Age: The Jaguar and the Tapir,” one of the stars of “Samaritans,” an exceptionally dense and evocative 16-artist show organized by the writer and curator Dan Nadel at Galerie Eva Presenhuber. The jaguar’s markings are a fanciful mix of wavy lines and amoeba-like shapes, and the animal stares with pale, yellow-green eyes, their pupils fine as apple seeds. The contrast between the tapir’s impastoed gray-black fur and the painting’s flat green background is jarring, as are four red rectangles, marked with pre-Columbian-style figures, that could represent windows, frescoes or tapestries. You don’t quite know where you’re standing, or what the rules are. But the work is not exactly threatening, either. It’s just a reminder that art, like the unconscious or the spirit world, has its own nonliteral reality.Two plaster casts by Sarah Peters, sensitive classical-white busts with tight crowns of wavy Assyrian hair; a series of heavily worked colored-pencil drawings by Steve DiBenedetto; and the three-eyed smoker in Jason Fox’s large green painting “Jekyll” are all eerie transformations of the human figure. An upholstered wooden monolith by Joe Bradley, like a cross between a coffin and a phone booth for mediums, is a polite but firm reminder of the eerie transformation awaiting us all.Three women in blue scrubs move a gurney through a mod-looking hospital in Gary Panter’s acrylic “Nurses of Gamma.” It’s not clear whether they’re running from the green monster hailing them with an upraised tentacle or merely looking back in acknowledgment. Painted with swirling strokes of kelly green over olive, the creature may be an imaginary boogie man, the unformed libido or a monstrous self we can’t acknowledge — but all it’s really doing is saying hello. WILL HEINRICHThrough Feb. 24. Smack Mellon, 92 Plymouth Street, Brooklyn; 718 834-8761, smackmellon.org.The word “patriarchy” once seemed like a worn-out term bandied about by 1970s feminists, but it’s making a comeback as authoritarian leaders around the globe, and their followers, try to overturn any advances made by women. You sense the importance of this word in two terrific shows at Smack Mellon: Bonnie Collura’s “Prince” and Rachelle Mozman Solano’s “Metamorphosis of Failure.”Ms. Collura emerged in the ’90s with post-Pop sculptures inspired by amusement park doodads, but she’s recently gone soft, making human figures with found fabric and other materials. Several of her fiber sculptures are strung from the ceiling, creating an eerie suggestion of just what she’d like to do with some of her subjects. But her titles often refer to Christian martyrs (St. Sebastian, Jesus) and revered leaders (Lincoln), alluding to the complex nature of men cast as “princes.” Complicated and antiheroic, Ms. Collura’s work takes patriarchy down a peg (symbolically, at least).Ms. Mozman Solano focuses on a single man: Paul Gauguin, a towering figure in Post-Impressionist art, also known for his ugly colonialist behavior in the South Pacific (that is, having sex with very young women and infecting them with syphilis). Gauguin’s exoticizing gaze and behavior are turned back on themselves in a series of canny photographs and collages and a video in which actors recreate Gauguin’s paintings — as well as grab the camera, turning it back on the artist.Quoting Gauguin’s writings and those of Georgia O’Keeffe, who was photographed by her lover Alfred Stieglitz, Ms. Mozman Solano questions the acts of portraiture and representation. Her work also delves into Gauguin’s bicultural biography in a way that is just as nuanced as Ms. Collura’s thinking about “princes”: Gauguin, who was half Peruvian and half French, was still obsessed with ideas of racial purity and the conquered aristocracy of the Pacific Islanders. Where Ms. Collura’s sculptures are silent and deadly, Ms. Mozman Solano makes the brown-skinned descendants and spiritual sisters of Gauguin’s subjects speak, giving a previously marginalized population a voice and, as women around the world are doing now, challenging the men who would abuse or silence them. MARTHA SCHWENDENERThrough March 23. Lévy Gorvy, 909 Madison Avenue, Manhattan; 212-772-2004, levygorvy.com.For many people, including me, the New Museum’s 2017 exhibition of the work of Carol Rama — her first museum survey in New York City — was a revelation: thrilling, psychically charged work by yet another female artist who had been ignored for most of her life. Fans now have a chance to visit Ms. Rama’s work again at Lévy Gorvy in the exhibition “Eye of Eyes,” which contains some pieces from the New Museum show alongside dozens more.The curator Flavia Frigeri has made two notable choices. She has filled the gallery’s stairwell with black-and-white historical photographs of  art exhibitions that took place in Turin, Italy, where Ms. Rama was born and lived until her death in 2015; documenting shows whose catalogs Ms. Rama owned, the images suggest that she would have visited or at least been familiar with them. Ms. Frigeri has also placed the artist’s best-known pieces — childlike and strangely sexual watercolors of nude women — farthest from the entrance. These decisions force the viewer to spend time with Ms. Rama’s more abstract, less immediately shocking work.Many of her canvases from the 1960s feature ominous swirls and splatters of paint in bloody red or oily black, with such unexpected objects as syringes, gun cartridges and doll eyes affixed to them. “Visite Mattutine” (“Morning Visits”), from 1967, looks like a riff on Abstract Expressionism that’s possessed, thanks to two beady orange eyes. In the 1970s, Ms. Rama tried out Minimalism with a twist: She took strips of rubber — allusions to her father, who committed suicide after the failure of his automobile-parts factory — and flattened them into suggestive shapes on monochrome canvases.The overall effect is to frame the practice of Ms. Rama, who was self-taught, in a refreshingly different way. Rather than positioning her as a loner whose life was tinged with madness, the show emphasizes her engagement with other artistic movements and the world. JILLIAN STEINHAUERAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleHave you heard of Zion Williamson?Some are calling him the next LeBron James. At 6 feet 7 inches and 285 pounds, Williamson, a freshman basketball player at Duke University, is impressing fans with his combination of size, strength and leaping ability. Many are captivated by his thrilling monster dunks.On Feb. 20, less than a minute into a nationally televised game against archrival North Carolina, Williamson injured his right knee when one of his Nike sneakers “exploded.” (Watch here to see what happened to the shoe.) With March Madness less than a month away, his injury has revived an age-old question: Should college athletes be paid?In “Zion Williamson’s Injury Has Some Saying He Should Quit Duke,” Marc Tracy writes:A freakish injury to Duke’s Zion Williamson, college basketball’s best and most prominent player, only seconds into a game on Wednesday night has instantaneously renewed a debate about the contradictions of the sport’s economic foundation, shining a harsh new light on the N.C.A.A.’s policy of amateurism and the influence of billion-dollar shoe companies.It also raised an important question: Should Williamson ever suit up for another college game?Fans were asking the question. An N.B.A. player was, too, even before Duke announced that Williamson had sprained his right knee in the fall.“It’s a legitimate question,” said Ramogi Huma, the founder and president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for players’ rights.In the first minute of top-ranked Duke’s game against its archrival, eighth-ranked North Carolina, Williamson, a 6-fotot-7, 285-pound forward whose game is a blend of quickness and power, pivoted with the ball near the free-throw line. As he planted a foot to reverse direction, his left sneaker collapsed and tore apart from the sheer torque of the move.Williamson fell backward in a split, grabbing his right knee. He walked off the court, and did not return. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said afterward that Williamson had sustained a knee injury, but that the joint was “stable.”Pending further testing, the general sense is that Williamson — and Duke, and Nike, which made the shoe — had avoided the worst. Williamson, widely considered the nation’s best college player, is expected to be available to Duke in time for its conference tournament or the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins in a month.That is, should Williamson elect to return.Huma cited the example of a top football player who found himself with a more serious injury a few years ago; that player elected to end his college career prematurely, to limit the risk to his professional payday. “To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Huma said.The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple. Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.That is how the college sports economy works, even as Duke; its conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference; television networks; and, of course, Nike, the apparel company that sponsors Duke and made the shoe that so spectacularly ripped apart, reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes like Williamson.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Do you think college athletes should be paid? Or is a college scholarship and other non-monetary perks like the opportunity to play in front of cheering fans enough?— Do you think college athletic programs, the N.C.A.A. and shoe companies like Nike are taking advantage of college athletes like Williamson? Why or why not?— In a related Opinion piece, “Paying Students to Play Would Ruin College Sports,” Cody J. McDavis writes:Paying student-athletes might sound like a fairer way to treat students who generate so much money and attention for their colleges (not to mention the television networks that broadcast their games). But paying athletes would distort the economics of college sports in a way that would hurt the broader community of student-athletes, universities, fans and alumni. A handful of big sports programs would pay top dollar for a select few athletes, while almost every other college would get caught up in a bidding war it couldn’t afford.Do you find his argument persuasive? What possible difficulties or downsides might there be in providing monetary compensation to players?— If you were Williamson, would you continue playing for Duke this season and risk injury? Or would you sit out the rest of the college season and enter the N.B.A. draft — where he will likely be the No. 1 overall pick and earn a multimillion-dollar contract?Related New York Times coverage:Everyone Loves to Watch Zion Williamson Play. Maybe as Much as He Loves Playing.How the N.C.A.A. Cheats Student AthletesA Way to Start Paying College AthletesOther Resources:College Athletes Getting Paid? Here Are Some Pros and Cons — HuffPostShould College Athletes Be Paid? Why, They Already Are — Sports IllustratedThere’s No Crying in College: The Case Against Paying College Athletes — Bleacher ReportStudents 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — I got a call at 3 p.m. on Friday from the Washington electric company telling me that a manhole in front of my house was smoking, that the underground cable to my house had burned up because it was old and that all the power in my house was out.“I can’t come home now,” I told the electric guy. I was extremely busy doing what everyone else in town was doing — nothing. Waiting. My house was the least of it — the whole city was short-circuiting.After word spread that Robert Mueller was going to deliver his report to the Justice Department at noon on Friday, a fog of anxiety crept in on little cat feet. (Sorry, Carl Sandburg.) After the president flew off to Mar-a-Lago, the skies darkened and rain pelted down.We drank coffee and waited.We ate burgers and waited.We watched basketball and waited for Mueller’s March Madness.All day, cable chatterers ranted about this being a significant moment in American history, but no one was sure yet what the significance was. As William Goldman once said of Hollywood, “Nobody knows anything.” And as Tom Petty sang, “The waiting is the hardest part.”Democrats yearned to have Mueller scream “Collusion!” like Marlon Brando once screamed “Stella!” And come to the podium to announce: “This is a real national emergency. The president is a Russian agent and needs to go immediately, along with his family.”They wished Bobby Boy Scout would go up to the Capitol and act like Rachel McAdams’s Regina George in “Mean Girls,” when she strides down the halls of the school scattering pages into the air that she had copied from the dishy Burn Book.No chance. The 74-year-old, an Ivy League graduate and a decorated Marine in Vietnam, is so meticulous that he would not even deviate to wear a blue shirt when he ran the F.B.I., seeing that as compromising his integrity. He has run the only disciplined, airtight operation in the undisciplined, leaky Trump era.Not even Rudy Giuliani, the president’s lawyer, knew what was happening when The Times’s Katie Rogers tracked him down at the Trump hotel at 1:30 p.m., as he sat at a table in the lobby and worked his cellphone trying to get information.No one, from the president on down, knew exactly when the report would come or what it would say. With his usual bravado about his base, Trump told Fox’s Maria Bartiromo that “people will not stand for it” if the report was damning.All we really knew was that this was a pivotal moment, not only for Trump but also for his Javert. If the special counsel delivered a weak gruel, after all the time, money, newsprint and digital space lavished on it, people would demand to know why he hadn’t pulled the plug long ago.By Friday morning, White House officials had been feeling better and Democrats who had once fantasized that Mueller would put Trump in a jumpsuit to match his hair began to emphasize that it was their congressional investigations and New York prosecutors that were going to bring Trump to justice.Still, no one knew for sure.It was not thought that Trump would be indicted, because Justice Department rules say a president can’t be indicted. So, the question was: Would Mueller imply that the only thing that saved Trump from an obstruction charge was the fact that he was sitting in the Oval Office? How much evidence would Mueller show that Trump actually tried to obstruct justice?As Happy Hour approached, Attorney General William Barr notified White House and congressional leaders that Mueller had delivered his report. The two Republicans are good friends who go back decades, a fact that startled Trump when Barr mentioned it during his confirmation hearings. (When Barr was attorney general the first time, under George H.W. Bush, he was Mueller’s boss, when Mueller led the criminal division.)In his letter to the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, Barr said he might be able to brief them on the main conclusions of the report this weekend. The Justice Department said no more indictments were coming in the Russia investigation. Could Don Jr. and Jared have shaken off the bloodhounds?The scene Friday was far more occluded than the media hullabaloo on Sept. 9, 1998, when two dark vans pulled up to Capitol Hill with 36 boxes containing Ken Starr’s report on presidential chicanery.Starr was a star leaker and showboat, and journalists and the public were quickly able to get their hands on the document on which the fate of the Republic was hanging. It was something of a shock to learn that the supposedly dignified independent counsel — who was once on a shortlist for the Supreme Court — had delivered a 445-page bodice ripper, a trite story of an office affair in all its seamy particulars, told with such sanctimony that it was redolent of Nathaniel Hawthorne.It was clear that the sins recorded were not black enough to merit impeachment. Politicians in Washington have been having illicit sex and lying about it since George Washington slept here.But that didn’t stop Republicans from impeaching Bill Clinton that December. In the end, the reputation of Starr and the hypocritical Republicans, some of whom were having their own affairs with young government aides, suffered. And the country suffered as well. Clinton came out more popular, until #MeToo caught up with him.As much as Trump will spin victory and claim it’s all over, Friday was not the end of what the president tweeted was “the World’s most expensive Witch Hunt.” Democrats, aflame with investigative zeal, demanded that the report be made public and all of Mueller’s files be turned over to Congress.Mueller may be winding down, but the Democrats are just getting wound up.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial BoardOpinionNoah BookbinderOpinionCaroline FredricksonAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Greg HowardNew York is probably the birthplace of two of the most important contributions to basketball. The first, born in a Brooklyn hospital in 1963, is Michael Jordan. The second, born in a Staten Island bar 14 years later, is widely considered to be the first March Madness pool.March Madness doesn’t refer so much to the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, the annual 68-team competition that crowns the best college team, as it does to the atmosphere around it, a national inferno of passion stoked by tens of millions of brackets religiously, incorrectly filled out by college basketball fans.Jody Haggerty, whom many credit with creating the March Madness pool, owned the Irish bar Jody’s Club Forest. In early March of 1977, he had the idea to print out the tournament pairings, asking some customers to select their favorites for a $10 fee; by 2006, the pool had grown so large that the winner took home $1.5 million. The next year, Mr. Haggerty ended the legendary pool after pleading guilty to federal tax evasion charges. He died in 2016.School and regional pride fuel part of the intense national interest in the tournament. So does money dedicated to brackets; millions of fans gamble on the tournament, helping to create billions in revenue that never reaches the players. Offices, posses, and families all over the country participate in competitions of their own.Some pools have grown so large that organizers have become fearful of the wrath of the I.R.S. I spoke to three such New York-based commissioners who over the course of 10 years or more organized pools of hundreds of members and worth thousands of dollars. None wanted to be identified for fear of attracting the attention of the Feds.Last weekend, Long Island University-Brooklyn upset Wagner College in the Northeast Conference championship to win an automatic berth to the tournament. Undoubtedly one of the worst teams in the national tournament, L.I.U.-Brooklyn was drawn in last Tuesday’s play-in game against a small school in Virginia called Radford University. It was the first game of the tournament. The winner would go on to join the rest of the field on Thursday as a 16th seed.And so it was that the madness of 2018 unofficially tipped off at Bounce Sporting Club, a sports bar in Manhattan’s Flatiron district, where L.I.U.-Brooklyn’s Alumni Association had organized a watch party. John Vasquez, one of Bounce’s investors, graduated from L.I.U.-Brooklyn in 1996.“They’re going to keep it close, and then they’re going to take over in the second half,” Mr. Vasquez said early in the contest. “And then they’re going to play Villanova on Thursday.”Villanova is seeded first in the East Region. Mr. Vasquez said he planned to pick his alma mater when he filled out his bracket.“It’s March Madness because it’s Upset Madness,” he said. “All you need is momentum.”It was wishful thinking that highlighted a vital, tragic point. Mr. Vasquez hadn’t even filled out his bracket yet; picks didn’t have to be finalized until Thursday. Not to mention that a 16th seed has never beaten a first seed in the tournament’s 79 years of existence.Bounce is usually bursting with attractive young locals looking to be seen, drink and dance. During big sports events like the basketball tournament, a line of hopeful patrons can snake down the street, and the atmosphere inside can be electric, even oppressive. For this game, however, the cavernous bar was mostly empty, save for about two dozen alumni mingling and munching on wings, kebabs and fries in a reserved back area. For virtually everyone but these fans, March Madness had yet to begin.Howard and Beverly Adelson drove down from New Rochelle, in Westchester, to watch the game. At halftime, with L.I.U.-Brooklyn down three, they lounged on a couch drinking beers.“I got an email,” Mr. Adelson said. “I thought, What better way to watch the game?”Mr. Adelson played guard for L.I.U.-Brooklyn from 1963 until he graduated in 1967. Ms. Adelson graduated in 1968, the year they married.“We thought there’d be more basketball alumni here,” Ms. Adelson admitted.Mr. Adelson was happy enough with the berth. “It’s a tribute to the coach,” he said approvingly. He fills out a bracket with his son every year. This year, he picked Virginia to win it all. He didn’t expect L.I.U.-Brooklyn to get past Villanova.Neither, really, did Andrew Zarick, who graduated L.I.U.-Brooklyn in 2007 and founded a tech start-up. He just recently moved to New Jersey after 14 years in Brooklyn, but he’s from Louisville, Ky. He said he catches only one or two L.I.U.-Brooklyn games a year, but participates in two small pools to keep in touch with his Louisville and college friends.“In one bracket, I have Villanova winning it,” he said. “In one I have Michigan.”Terry Dayle, a computer programmer from Brooklyn, dropped out of L.I.U.-Brooklyn in the ’90s, but went back to finish his accounting degree in 2010. “I’m spiritually 1994,” he said.In the second half, L.I.U.-Brooklyn kept it close. When asked who he thought would win, Mr. Dayle sighed. Radford, he said, reminded him of the 1980s Detroit Pistons. Teams would draw to within three points, but the Pistons would execute and eventually pull away. He finished his explanation three and a half minutes into the half, just before L.I.U.-Brooklyn took a three-point lead.“Guess I was wrong,” he said. He doesn’t watch many L.I.U. games. He doesn’t often fill out tournament brackets, either. “I’m never right.”Usha Narasimhan graduated from L.I.U. Post, in Long Island, in 1999. She doesn’t follow college basketball, but she decided to show up.“I’m a proud alum,” she said. “I got the email and said, ‘Hey, why not?’”Ms. Narasimhan chatted with a co-worker through the game. The alums made for a muted, distracted viewing party. They took group photos and caught up with one another as momentum seesawed between teams.But with just over five minutes left, Radford led by three, and the viewing party grew quiet and tense. Terry Williams, a football fan who graduated from L.I.U.-Brooklyn in 1982, slammed his hand on the table when an L.I.U.-Brooklyn player missed a free throw. With under three remaining, a Radford forward made a turnaround jumper in the paint to put Radford in the lead, 66-59.“He walked,” Mr. Williams weakly pleaded. “He walked.”Mr. Dayle, it turned out, was finally right. Radford dominated in the end, building a 10-point lead with 20 seconds remaining. Most of the alumni seemed untouched by the defeat; no one had real expectations or much money riding on L.I.U.-Brooklyn to win. But they all stayed to the final whistle.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIvo van Hove is a rarity: a stage director who has bridged the divide between experimental European theatermaking and the story-driven demands of the commercial American stage.Who might follow in his arresting footsteps? Here, courtesy of critics and writers for The New York Times, are names to watch — and where to watch some of their coming productions.[Read our conversation about Ivo van Hove.]This German director’s high-octane “Richard III” (incorporating a rap by Tyler, the Creator) left me breathless at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Mr. Ostermeier, who heads the Schaubühne theater in Berlin, excels at updating classics to a modern setting — his violent “Miss Julie” took place in Putin’s amoral new Russia — but he also champions fascinating, intellectually inquisitive new works like “Returning to Reims.” An announced Broadway debut with “An Enemy of the People” seems to have been indefinitely postponed. Perhaps it’s time to give it another chance? ELISABETH VINCENTELLIOne of the most imaginative — and divisive — pace setters of the theater of anachronism, this British-born auteur rose to fame with visually startling productions that recontextualized classics, from Euripides’ “Iphigenia at Aulis” (reimagined within a stoical, World War II home front) to a ravishing multimedia interpretation of Virginia Woolf’s “The Waves.” Having focused largely on opera in recent years, Ms. Mitchell returns to London this month to direct Cate Blanchett in Martin Crimp’s “When We Have Sufficiently Tortured Each Other: Twelve Variations on Samuel Richardson’s Pamela.” BEN BRANTLEYThe South African Ms. Farber finds new primal energy in theatrical war horses. Her version of Arthur Miller’s “The Crucible,” at the Old Vic in London, was steeped in the sweat, dirt and darkness of colonists finding their way in a harsh new world, while her reimagining of Strindberg’s “Miss Julie” as the post-apartheid-era “Mies Julie” conjured a lethally mixed cocktail of sex and politics. This season, she’ll be staging her compatriot Athol Fugard’s “Boesman and Lena” for the Signature Theater. BEN BRANTLEYThis Australian maverick loves to steer celebrated stars out of their comfort zones in implosive, bare-knuckled productions that strip the poetry from lyrical plays. He has worked his rowdy magic on Cate Blanchett and Isabelle Huppert (in an antic take on Genet’s “The Maids”); Gillian Anderson (playing a tigerish Blanche DuBois in a Darwinian jungle in Tennessee Williams’s “A Streetcar Named Desire”); and Sienna Miller (red in tooth and claw as the title character of Williams’s “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof”). BEN BRANTLEYMr. Castellucci’s cryptic shows exalt rather than frustrate audiences. This Italian director creates masterful living tableaux that often draw from classical and religious themes, and summon tectonic, elemental forces — the striking visuals are sometimes accompanied by deafening soundscapes, and sometimes unfurl in a quasi-mystical quiet. Mr. Castellucci has become an in-demand opera director in Europe, but he shines most with his own company, Socìetas Raffaello Sanzio. Their “Democracy in America” will be part of Montclair State University’s Peak Performances series from May 9-12. ELISABETH VINCENTELLILast year, this Australian director made a blistering New York debut with “Yerma,” a tale of obsession descending into madness. The trademark of Mr. Stone’s emerging career seems to be high-concept sets: an enclosed transparent box in “Yerma,” a three-story grid of rooms in “Hotel Strindberg,” a revolving abode in “Ibsen House.” Just as the characters have nowhere to hide, Mr. Stone’s productions turn classics inside out — he usually rewrites them — the better to reveal their guts. ELISABETH VINCENTELLIThe Swiss-born director’s taboo-testing productions led one publication to call him “the world’s most controversial director.” He broke out in 2009 with “The Last Days of the Ceausescus,” about the trial and execution of Romania’s Communist leader and his wife, while “La Reprise” — in which he re-enacts the murder of a gay man in Belgium — was the talk of this year’s Avignon Festival. His New York debut, in March at N.Y.U. Skirball, will be “Five Easy Pieces,” about Marc Dutroux, a notorious pedophile and murderer. Almost all the actors are children. ALEX MARSHALL AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jillian Rayfield and Virginia Lozano(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump blamed “treasonous” critics for the Russia investigation.A day after possibly the best day of his tenure — when the Justice Department reported that the Mueller inquiry had not found a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia — a grim, angry Mr. Trump said that his critics should be investigated themselves.“They lied to Congress, many of them, you know who they are,” he said. “They’ve done so many evil things.”The president’s Republican allies followed suit. Senator Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, vowed to launch an investigation into anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. and Justice Department._____2. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, who has remained largely silent in public, is returning to civilian life under the post-report spotlight.Our Washington reporters took a look at what his life has been like over the last two years, including his regular Sunday morning church services and Friday night meal of wine and scallops.Meanwhile, Democrats are gearing up to fight for the release of the full report and questioning the attorney general’s decision to clear the president of obstruction of justice, which Mr. Mueller declined to do. Above, a reflection of the Capitol from the Russell Senate building in Washington._____3. President Trump formally recognized Israeli authority over the Golan Heights.It was a political gift to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, above left, ahead of a tight Israeli election, and it came just as Mr. Netanyahu confronted a domestic crisis: a rocket launched from Gaza that hit a home in central Israel, injuring seven people.In the wake of the attack, Mr. Netanyahu had to cancel his planned speech to a conference organized by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobby group known as Aipac, but his chief rival in the election, Benny Gantz, spoke.Timed to the conference, Senate Republicans are introducing two bills on anti-Semitism, part of a strategy to court American Jews and deepen fractures in the Democratic Party._____4. Britain’s Parliament is trying to seize control of the Brexit process.The lawmakers passed an amendment giving themselves the power to vote on alternatives to Prime Minister Theresa May’s twice-rejected plan on Wednesday.The move — a remarkable rebuke to Mrs. May, pictured above outside of Downing Street today — could create a constitutional showdown.And it makes the week that was supposed to end with Britain’s departure from the European Union into a very different kind of turning point._____5. We’re tracking a series of suicides among those closely affected by mass shootings.Jeremy Richman, 49, above right, whose 6-year-old daughter was one of the 20 children killed at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, was found dead today, with a note nearby whose contents were not disclosed.Two survivors of last year’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla., also died recently in apparent suicides: a 16-year-old last weekend and a 19-year-old the weekend before._____6. Today’s tech news: There’s a flood of initial public offerings within sight, from companies like Lyft, Pinterest and Airbnb.So the investors who helped nurture “unicorns,” the start-ups valued at more than $1 billion, are dropping their modesty, and getting ready for a big payday. You could say they’re going to embody a different animal metaphor: the peacock.On the product side, Apple unveiled new services that shift its focus away from hardware, notably a new video service, Apple TV+ (Plus), to launch this fall in 100 countries, and a news subscription service offering access to 300 magazines and newspapers for $9.99 a month._____7. They were looking for adventure. They found violence.The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, and with them, tales of violence and death. One woman’s brutalized body was found near her Airbnb in Costa Rica. Another, Hannah Gavios, above, had to learn to walk again after tumbling from a cliff in Thailand and being sexually assaulted while she lay helpless.These stories raise questions about how the world is greeting female solo travelers, how social media portrays the accessibility of some far-flung destinations and the enduring nature of gender violence worldwide._____8. Germany’s second-richest family asked a historian to investigate the origins of its fortune.He found a dark past that involved forced labor during the Nazi era, news of which broke Sunday in the German tabloid Bild.The Reimann family, which controls a consumer goods conglomerate, JAB Holding Company, that includes Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Jimmy Choo shoes and Calvin Klein perfume, learned that their father and grandfather were Hitler supporters and anti-Semites who used forced laborers at their chemical company — and in their own home. Above, a JAB office building in Mannheim, Germany.“We were speechless,” said a family spokesman. “We were ashamed and were white as a wall.” The family intends to release the full, final report next year._____9. Favorites pack the Sweet Sixteen. The top 12 seeds in the men’s college basketball tournament have all advanced for just the second time since the bracket expanded to 64 teams in 1985. Two No. 4s made it too.That speaks well of the seeding process, our columnist writes, but the casual fan won’t be seeing the unlikely wins and upsets that make March Madness appealing.Here’s our look ahead at the men’s games. Here’s where we are after weekend play in the women’s tournament, and where to watch tonight._____10. Finally, a book that our critic calls a “brainy, gleaming epic.”“The Old Drift,” the debut novel from Namwali Serpell, follows the fortunes of three families with ties to Zambia across four generations.“This is a dazzling book, as ambitious as any first novel published this decade,” Dwight Garner writes. “It made the skin on the back of my neck prickle.”Have a brilliant night.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to an attack on Hannah Gavios, a solo female traveler. She was sexually assaulted, not raped. The briefing also misstated the location of the attack. It was in Thailand, not Vietnam.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe absurdity of denying Trump’s bigotry.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistIt’s hard to say what’s a bigger taboo in American politics: being a racist, or calling someone one.Sure, the Republican Party will occasionally try to distance itself from one of its more egregiously hateful members, like Representative Steve King of Iowa, who lost committee assignments after seeming to defend white nationalism. But mostly, right-wing politicians and their media allies pretend, to the point of farce, that the primary racial injustice in America involves white people unfairly accused of racism. This makes talking openly about the evident racism of our president harder than it should be.To see how this works in microcosm, consider the House Oversight Committee hearing at which Donald Trump’s former consigliere Michael Cohen testified on Wednesday. Cohen said, in his opening statement, that, in addition to being a con man and a cheat, Trump is a racist. This should be clear to all people of good faith, given that Trump was a leading figure in the birther movement, defended white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, and claimed he couldn’t get a fair hearing from a judge of Mexican heritage, to mention just a few examples.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]But Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, strenuously objected to Cohen’s description, and came up with what he seemed to think was an airtight rejoinder. Meadows, who is white, had Lynne Patton, an African-American woman and longtime Trump employee now at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, stand behind him, and quoted her saying that she would not work for a racist. Checkmate!In the past, one person who would often publicly vouch for Trump’s non-racism was Omarosa Manigault Newman, the “Apprentice”-star-turned-White House aide. Then Manigault Newman came out with a book calling Trump “a racist, a bigot and a misogynist.” As part of her promotional tour for that book, she released an audio recording of a conversation she had with Patton and another African-American Trump supporter, Katrina Pierson, strategizing about how to handle the fallout should a tape surface of Trump using a racist slur. On the recording Patton, the person Meadows called upon as a character witness for the president, didn’t seem doubtful that Trump could have said such a thing.Many liberals were agog at this stunt by Meadows; on the left it's largely accepted that responding to charges of racism by pointing to black friends — never mind black employees — is clueless at best. Some white conservatives, however, seem convinced that you can’t be racist if you have an affectionate relationship with a person of color. And so when Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, called out Meadows toward the end of the hearing, he was so aggrieved he nearly melted down.The “fact that someone would actually use a prop, a black woman, in this chamber, in this committee, is alone racist in itself,” said Tlaib, who is Palestinian-American. Red-faced, indignant and seemingly on the verge of tears, Meadows demanded that Tlaib’s words be stricken from the record, turned the charge of racism back on her, and said that he has nieces and nephews who are people of color. In a stunning dramatization of how racial dynamics determine whose emotions are honored, the hearing momentarily came to a halt so that Tlaib could assure Meadows that she didn’t mean to call him a racist, and the committee chairman, Elijah Cummings, who is African-American, could comfort him. “I could see and feel your pain,” Cummings told him.So Meadows emerged as the victim. There was, however, another twist. It turns out that in 2012, Meadows said some very racist things about Barack Obama, promising, on at least two occasions, to send the American president “home to Kenya or wherever it is.” As recordings of these comments ricocheted through the news, Meadows didn’t quite apologize, but he did tell reporters that his words were “not the way that I should’ve answered the questions.” (In only one instance did he appear to be responding to a question.) “I can tell you that anyone who knows me knows that there is not a racial bone in my body,” he added.I don’t know Meadows, or what a “racial bone” is, but I suspect he may not be the best arbiter of what constitutes bigotry. Then again, when it comes to Trump, no arbiter is really needed. Why, after all, was Meadows’s rediscovered birtherism so newsworthy, automatically understood as pertinent to a debate about his racism, or lack thereof? Because there’s a mainstream assumption that it is racist to say that Obama secretly hails from Africa. This should, but somehow doesn’t, translate into a mainstream assumption that Trump, who rode birther conspiracies to political prominence, is an unrepentant racist. He should be shunned as Steve King is shunned, but he can’t be shunned because he is the president.This contradiction is behind some of the madness of our public life right now. Normalizing Trump, which has become a central mission of the Republican Party, depends on denial about what racism is. Not for the first time, Tlaib got in trouble for pointing out the obvious — the president is a bigot, and that in bringing out Patton to exonerate him, Meadows only demonstrated his own gross insensitivity.On Thursday, Tlaib and Meadows reportedly had a warm conversation on the House floor; according to a CNN reporter, they hugged. I’m glad; given how much she’s been demonized in her short time in Congress, it’s probably in her interest to make Meadows feel better about their earlier exchange. Who knows, if she’s friendly enough, maybe he’ll be able to cite their relationship next time he’s caught saying something awful.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Shannon DoyneDid you fill out a bracket for the N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball tournament this year? Do you ever bet on other sports events?In the Opinion essay “What Americans Really Think About Sports Betting,” Gary Belsky writes:The United States Supreme Court, in a case to be decided in the next few months, is expected to rule in favor of the State of New Jersey and overturn a ban on non-internet sports betting in all but four states (Delaware, Montana, Nevada and Oregon). According to a recent report from Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, at least 18 state legislatures are preparing bills to legalize and regulate sports gambling.That none of these developments has rallied much outcry or opposition reflects both an evolution and devolution of attitudes toward the subject.In 1992, a federal law banned sports betting in most of the country. A Gallup/CNN/USA Today poll showed that a majority of Americans disapproved of legalization. This reflected long-held concerns, not only in regard to the activity itself but also to the dangers it posed to the integrity of our games. High-profile gambling scandals — ranging from the 1919 Black Sox fixing of the World Series to revelations that the baseball legend Pete Rose bet on games in which he participated — confirmed for many people that sports and betting were not a good match.By 2014, however, polls began to show that a majority of Americans had begun to rethink their skepticism. What changed in the intervening years? A lot, including the introduction of the internet — which for a period made online gambling (especially poker) easily accessible without bringing down the Republic.Some credit must also go to Super Bowl Squares sheets and March Madness pools, the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling (with dealers across the country).Students: Read the entire essay, then tell us:— Do you think the ban on sports betting should be overturned? Why or why not?— Do you agree with Mr. Belsky that Super Bowl Squares sheets and March Madness pools are “the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling”?— What do you think may be gained—or lost—if sports betting is made legal?— What do you hope will happen when the Supreme Court hears the case? Why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• President Trump’s plans to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria have been muddled after a suspected chemical attack by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad over the weekend.In the latest atrocity in the country’s seven-year civil war, dozens died, apparently from suffocation, in a rebel-held suburb east of Damascus, the capital. The U.S. and the European Union condemned the strike, but Syria’s allies in Moscow and Tehran dismissed reports of a chemical attack as “bogus.”•  Syria and Russia accused Israel today of airstrikes on a Syrian military base. Mr. Trump had promised a “big price” to be paid for the suspected chemical attack and partly blamed President Vladimir Putin of Russia.• Starting today, Facebook is to notify up to 87 million people whose information, including location and liked pages, was swept up by the political data firm Cambridge Analytica.The Times has spoken to some of those people, whose reactions ranged from angry to unsurprised: “If you sign up for anything and it isn’t immediately obvious how they’re making money, they’re making money off of you,” one said.Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, begins testifying in Congress on Tuesday.• The company has promised to offer all of its users the same privacy controls that will be required under a new European data protection law. We look at what that means, and whether the company can deliver.• Long-term use is surging in the U.S., according to a new analysis of data by The Times. About 15.5 million Americans have been taking the drugs for at least five years, and the rate has more than tripled since 2000.Although the medications have helped millions of people ease depression and anxiety, many who try to quit say they cannot because of withdrawal symptoms they were never warned about.• “Some people are essentially being parked on these drugs for convenience’s sake because it’s difficult to tackle the issue of taking them off,” one doctor told us.• In an effort to energize conservative voters, Republicans are warning that Democrats might try to impeach President Trump if they capture the House in November.“The threat of impeachment is something that unifies everybody in the party, even if you’re not a big Trump supporter,” said Corey Lewandowski, the president’s former campaign manager.• The Times Magazine’s  politics editor writes about Mr. Trump’s political rallies, which have continued long after the election, “the period at the end of a sentence that he would happily have let run on forever.”• Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, replaced its chief executive after three consecutive years of losses and other problems.• No need to sign: The major credit card networks are ending a requirement that people sign for most transactions, conceding that it’s not a useful way to prove identity.• The Congressional Budget Office will release its annual forecast today, after it was delayed to assess the effects of the new tax law. It’s one of the headlines to watch this week.• U.S. stocks were down on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• How to write your last will and testament.• Here are three steps to avoid giving biased feedback.• Recipe of the day: Ease into weeknight cooking with oven-baked miso tofu over rice.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:• “A boy caught up in the violent MS-13 gang since his childhood in El Salvador decides to take the risky step of getting out, after experiencing the wonders of public high school in Long Island.“He tells the police everything he knows. What happens next is the gravest form of official betrayal.” [New York Magazine/ProPublica]— Shaila Dewan, national  criminal justice editor• “Hidden on the edges of our solar system, well beyond Neptune and even the demoted dwarf planet Pluto, is a mysterious, never seen and very large something.“This article explains in exciting detail how astronomers are trying to find ‘Planet Nine.’ ” [Scientific American] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• North Korea has offered direct assurance that its leader, Kim Jong-un, is willing to discuss denuclearization at a meeting with President Trump, administration officials said. The meeting is expected to take place next month.• The Canadian town of Humboldt, Saskatchewan, was devastated after a bus carrying its junior hockey team collided with a tractor-trailer truck. Fifteen people were killed and 14 others wounded.• Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has transformed Hungary into a semi-autocratic state, appears to have won a sweeping victory in national elections.• Two people were killed and about 20 were injured in Münster, Germany, after the driver of a truck crashed into a group of people, the police said. The driver, whose motive was unclear, killed himself immediately after the crash.• Patrick Reed  won the Masters in Augusta, Ga. It was the first victory at a major tournament for the 27-year-old golfer.• “A Quiet Place,” a nearly dialogue-free horror movie, earned $50 million and the top spot at the North American box office.• Bill Cosby returns to courtThe entertainer’s retrial on sexual assault charges is to begin today, after his first trial ended in a deadlocked jury 10 months ago. Although the charges and the complainant are the same, much about his second trial will be different.• The wit of Tina Fey, in songThe comedian’s adaptation of “Mean Girls,” the 2004 film about high school cliques, opened on Broadway on Sunday night. It’s likable, but is it fetch? Our co-chief theater critic explains.• Quotation of the day“Today, 70 years later, you have the feeling for the first time that history could repeat itself. That that’s not out of the question.”— Ralf Teepe, a civil servant who joined the owner of his local bookstore in protesting a neo-Nazi march in Berlin’s old Jewish quarter.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Before March fades too far from our memories, we wanted to revisit a back story that appeared recently in the versions of our Morning Briefing in Asia and Europe.In it, we explained to our international audience the history of the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, which acquired the nickname “March Madness” in the 1980s.As it relates to basketball, March Madness can be traced to 1939, when it was used by the Illinois High School Association to describe a statewide high-school basketball tournament: “A little March madness may complement and contribute to sanity and help keep society on an even keel.”One of our erudite readers, however, pointed out that the link between March and madness is much older than the 20th century: The phrase “mad as a March hare” stretches back to the 1500s.The idiom, used to describe someone who is crazy or irrational, derives its meaning from the behavior of hares at the beginning of breeding season.In Lewis Carroll’s “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” from 1865, the March Hare attends the Mad Hatter’s tea party, before which Alice thinks: “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps, as this is May, it won’t be raving mad — at least not so mad as it was in March.”Claire Moses contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyWASHINGTON — The first games of last year’s N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament made plenty of memories: Virginia’s historic first-round exit; the beginning of Loyola-Chicago’s fun Final Four run; Nevada’s exciting upset of second-seeded Cincinnati.But you may hardly remember that tournament’s regional semifinals and finals, the games over the second long weekend. Some were close, others not. Only Kansas’ 80-76 overtime win over Duke registered as a classic. Even the Final Four felt like little more than the predetermined coronation of a dominant Villanova.The contrast represented a trade-off. The theory went like this: If you want the wonderful anarchy of a crazy and unpredictable first weekend, you might have to settle for latter rounds with more than their share of lopsided matchups and consequent blowouts. In turn, a by-the-numbers opening weekend by all rights ought to lead to the best basketball of the season, as 16 superior teams scrap against one another for a national championship.With this year’s Final Four field set after second-seeded Michigan State’s 1-point victory over the top overall seed, Duke, on Sunday, the second part of that bargain has been consummated. After one of the two chalkiest first and second rounds ever, the regionals produced the best second weekend of the N.C.A.A. tournament in 20 years, and potentially set up two or three more great games.This year’s regional semifinals included No. 2 Kentucky’s squeaker over No. 3 Houston and No. 5 Auburn’s surprise upset of No. 1 North Carolina. Top-seeded Virginia barely survived the only double-digit seed left, No. 12 Oregon, and No. 3 Purdue required overtime to knock out No. 2 Tennessee.And the regional finals on Saturday and Sunday outdid those games. Texas Tech, a scrappy bunch led by a sophomore, Jarrett Culver, who is actually from Lubbock, Tex., upset top-seeded Gonzaga on Saturday. The Virginia-Purdue game went to overtime after the Cavaliers’ freshman point guard, Kihei Clark, made a heads-up halfcourt pass to Mamadi Diakite, who hit a buzzer-beater to tie the score. Virginia advanced in overtime.Sunday’s first game also went to overtime, with Auburn eventually upsetting Kentucky. That left only No. 2 Michigan State versus No. 1 Duke, an instant all-timer that included the stunning defeat of college basketball’s ultimate front-runner and its massive star, Zion Williamson.Tre Jones, Duke’s wise freshman point guard, had put it best on Saturday, referring to the combined 3 points by which Duke had eked out wins in its previous two games. “We are really living the March Madness thing out to the fullest,” he said.That is how we got where we are. On Saturday in Minneapolis, at the Vikings’ U.S. Bank Stadium, No. 1 Virginia (33-3) will play No. 5 Auburn (30-9), and then No. 2 Michigan State (32-6) will play No. 3 Texas Tech (30-6).Auburn lives by the 3-pointer. But it also plays stifling defense, and that prevented its dying by the 3 when it shot poorly in its win over Kentucky. That extra gear will come in handy when the Tigers face Virginia’s pack-line defense, which is specifically good at stopping deep shots. The Spartans-Red Raiders game, meanwhile, should be a slugfest between two extremely physical teams.Of the Final Four teams, only Michigan State counts among the half-dozen biggest names in the college game, but do not let that fool you. If all these programs do not have the same pedigree, all these individual teams belong.On Sunday, Auburn Coach Bruce Pearl anointed the Tigers “the Cinderellas of this tournament.” It helped that they had just successively bumped off three of the sport’s most redoubtable blue bloods, Kansas, North Carolina and Kentucky. It also helped that Pearl is an enthusiastic salesman (at best; we will be hearing more about the “at worst” of his career over the next week).If Auburn is the Cinderella, though, that makes this a very loaded field. Auburn won the Southeastern Conference tournament only two weeks ago, and it is the 11th-best team in the country according to the KenPom rankings (Loyola-Chicago was 31st at the same time last year). Michigan State won the Big Ten tournament. Virginia was the Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season co-champion. Texas Tech was co-champion of the Big 12, by several metrics the strongest league in the country this year.It is the first Final Four for both Auburn and Texas Tech — similar to the favorites-heavy tournament of two years ago, which also featured two first-timers, South Carolina and Gonzaga, which were emphatically not long shots of the Loyola-Chicago (or Butler, or George Mason, or Virginia Commonwealth) variety. That, too, was a tournament that began with unusually few upsets.Dane Fife, the Michigan State associate head coach, offered some theories that could explain these recent influxes of first-time Final Four participants drawn not from the pool of out-of-nowhere midmajor teams but from the leagues that dominate contemporary college basketball and, with the right coaches, can have access to its best players.“We’re losing a lot of kids early — us as a college basketball business — and the transfers have really spread the wealth,” Fife said, referring to the increased prevalence of one-and-dones (and even two-and-dones) at the top programs where the best players tend to congregate anyway.“That’s added to the parity in college hoops,” he said.Texas Tech, for instance, has three seniors who were nonetheless effectively recruited by the third-year coach Chris Beard, transferring from other programs. (Fife noted that Michigan State had also looked at Matt Mooney, a guard who had played at Air Force and South Dakota before electing to transfer to a high-major team.)Virginia and Michigan State, the two favorites, are constructed with a pinch of young talent (the Virginia sophomore De’Andre Hunter, likely to be a first-round draft pick; the Michigan State freshman Aaron Henry, a big part of Friday’s win over Louisiana State); a dash of transfers or otherwise randomly obtained players (Virginia’s Braxton Key, who came from Alabama; Michigan State’s Kenny Goins, a onetime walk-on); and plenty of heavily developed upperclassmen.It was difficult not to notice that John Calipari’s Kentucky and Mike Krzyzewski’s Duke, college basketball’s two premier homes to one-and-dones and the only two programs to win national titles recently on the backs primarily of freshmen, were the ones that lost within hours of each other Sunday.“I thought they played older than we did,” Krzyzewski said of Michigan State. “But that’s happened to us — we are young.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAsia and Australia EditionBy Charles McDermid(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Mark Zuckerberg’s charm offensive, India’s bold #MeToo moment and Russell Crowe has an auction. Here’s what you need to know: • A suspected chemical weapons attack that killed dozens of Syrians and sickened hundreds in Douma, the rebel-held Damascus suburb, increased international tensions and raised the possibility of a U.S. missile strike. Above, a video image of toddlers being treated.President Trump, on Twitter, directly blamed President Vladimir Putin of Russia as well as Iran for backing the Syrian president (“Animal Assad”), and pledged a “big price to pay.” Russia and Iran contend that the reported attack was bogus.Almost exactly a year ago, after a sarin gas attack in Syria killed more than 80 civilians, the U.S. military struck a Syrian airfield, on Mr. Trump’s orders, just 63 hours later._____• Mark Zuckerberg faces Congress.Facebook’s chief executive, embarks on a two-day marathon of testifying before U.S. lawmakers on Tuesday. To prepare, experts gave him a crash course in humility and charm.He’ll have a lot of ground to cover: apologizing for recent missteps, offering reassurances that foreign powers will be stopped from using Facebook to meddle in U.S. elections and explaining plans to better protect users’ data.Facebook has already announced a string of new privacy and anti-abuse measures, seeking to transform its image from a defiant and secretive behemoth into a contrite paragon of openness._____• “We South Koreans peacefully unseated a sitting president for corruption and had her convicted in a court of law. How many countries in the world can do that?”That was an anticorruption campaigner after Park Geun-hye was sentenced on Friday to 24 years in prison, more than a year after she was ousted from the presidency.Still, the country’s most enduring power is the handful of family-controlled conglomerates known as chaebol, and few expect fundamental change until they, too, are held to account for corrupt practices._____• In one of India’s boldest #MeToo-type moments,  an actress publicly disrobed to draw attention to sexual harassment in the country’s film industry.After videos and pictures of a topless Sri Reddy, 28, spread quickly on the internet, the question turned to whether this was about changing society or a publicity stunt.Separately, the Indian government is scanning the fingers, eyes and faces of its 1.3 billion residents for an ID mandatory for many services. Opponents see the program, called Aadhaar, as Orwell’s Big Brother brought to life. Above, identity card applicants in New Delhi._____• Russell Crowe’s leather jockstrap from the 2005 boxing movie “Cinderella Man” went for 7,000 Australian dollars, or $5,370. The maroon Doc Martens that Mr. Crowe wore in the 1992 movie “Romper Stomper” sold for 10,000 Australian dollars.In all, hundreds of items belonging to the Oscar-winning Australian actor, above, were auctioned at Sotheby’s Australia on Saturday under the title “The Art of Divorce.”The proceeds, more than $3.7 million Australian, will benefit a Sydney charity that provides music education and instruments to disadvantaged and indigenous children and at-risk youth.• Open revolt: The Denver Post, the 125-year-old Colorado newspaper, publicly slammed its New York-based hedge-fund owner, describing its executives as “vulture capitalists.”• Among the headlines to watch for this week: President Xi Jinping is expected to unveil further reform measures, including economic ones, at the Boao Forum in the southern Chinese island province of Hainan on Tuesday.• Japan signed a $90 million grant and loan deal with Cambodia for economic and electricity projects in Phnom Penh.• Two of China’s most popular video platforms disappeared from app stores after CCTV, the state broadcaster, accused them of promoting underage pregnancy.• Australia’s coal miners won their highest supply contract with Japan since 2012, up 18 percent from 2017.• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The annual Pyongyang marathon drew about 400 runners from around 43 countries and territories, less than half last year’s numbers. [A.P.]• In London, an additional 300 police officers have been deployed to help stop a wave of knife attacks. There were six stabbings in 90 minutes on Thursday. [The Telegraph]• Texas became the first state to deploy National Guard troops to the southern border after President Trump announced he would order the military there. [The New York Times]• Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak, dissolved Parliament and released a manifesto of pledges for ethnic Malays, his key voting bloc, ahead of national polls expected in early May. [Reuters]• Paul Le Roux, one of the world’s least known but most prodigious criminals, confessed to an astonishing array of crimes, including shipping guns from Indonesia, trafficking methamphetamines out of North Korea and taking part in at least five murders. [The New York Times]• The police in Japan arrested a 73-year-old man after they were alerted that he had kept his mentally ill son, 42, confined in a wooden cage for as long as 20 years. [The Asahi Shimbun]• Prince Charles, while on a weeklong tour in Australia, was reunited with a woman who made headlines 40 years ago, when she was 14, for kissing him at Cairns Airport in Queensland. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• How to start working out.• Which is better during exercise: bananas or sports drinks? (It may not be what you think.)• Recipe of the day: Ease into weeknight cooking with oven-baked miso tofu over rice.• Modern Love: A divorced woman seeking no-strings-attached liaisons learned a sobering lesson about matrimony — by sleeping with married men.• In memoriam. Daniel Akaka, 93, a former U.S. senator from Hawaii and a World War II veteran who fought for the belated recognition of Asian-American servicemen; Isao Takahata, 82, a film director who co-founded Japan’s premier animation studio, Studio Ghibli.• And Japan’s new gleam of prosperity has rekindled an interest in the 1980s, a so-called Lost Decade that was “a time of Champagne, garish colors and bubbly disco dance-floor anthems.”Before March fades too far from our memories, we wanted to follow up on a back story that appeared recently in the versions of our Morning Briefing in Asia and Europe.In it, we explained to our international audience the history of the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, which acquired the nickname “March Madness” in the 1980s.As it relates to basketball, March Madness can be traced to 1939, when it was used by the Illinois High School Association to describe a statewide high-school basketball tournament: “A little March madness may complement and contribute to sanity and help keep society on an even keel.”One of our erudite readers, however, pointed out that the link between March and madness is much older: The old English phrase “mad as a March hare” stretches back to the 1500s.The idiom, used to describe someone who is crazy or irrational, derives its meaning from the behavior of hares at the beginning of breeding season.In Lewis Carroll’s “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” from 1865, the March Hare famously attends the Mad Hatter’s tea party, before which Alice thinks: “The March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May, it won’t be raving mad — at least not so mad as it was in March.”Claire Moses contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEurope EditionBy Dan Levin(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Rising tensions over Syria, a nationalist win in Hungary and a foiled attack in Germany. Here’s the latest:• “Big price to pay.”An apparent chemical weapons attack that killed dozens of Syrians and sickened hundreds in Douma, the rebel-held Damascus suburb, increased international tensions and raised the possibility of a U.S. missile strike. Above, a video image of toddlers being treated.President Trump, on Twitter, directly blamed both President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Iran for backing the Syrian regime of “Animal Assad.” U.S. security officials said a strike had not been ruled out. Russia and Iran claimed the reported attack was bogus.The attack — and Mr. Trump’s hint at retaliation — came days after he pledged to quickly withdraw U.S. troops from Syria, highlighting the political and military risks of a war Mr. Trump has long wanted to leave.Meanwhile, North Korea has told the U.S. that its leader, Kim Jong-un, is willing to discuss denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, the first direct confirmation that Mr. Kim intends to participate in an unprecedented meeting with President Trump expected to take place next month._____• Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary won a sweeping electoral victory on Sunday that will give him the power to change the Constitution and further erode Hungary’s democracy.The results alarmed Western governments that had watched as Mr. Orban, above, transformed the European Union country into a semi-autocracy rife with crony capitalism and far-right rhetoric.His campaign cast him as a nationalist shield against migrants and Brussels, and his win is likely to embolden other European far-right leaders. Mr. Orban’s victory also poses a major test for the E.U., which provides Hungary with billions of dollars in funding but has been unable to thwart its retreat from the bloc’s liberal values._____• Germany is on heightened alert after the authorities detained six men suspected of plotting a possible attack on the Berlin half-marathon, a day after a truck attack in the western city of Münster killed two people and injured 20. Above, a vigil for the victims in Münster.The authorities said the truck driver, who killed himself after plowing into crowded sidewalk tables, was a mentally ill German citizen with no apparent links to Islamic terrorism. Still the crash raised fears of further violence in a country that has endured a series of extremist attacks.The police would not comment on reports that the suspects in the Berlin case were linked to Anis Amri, the Tunisian man who drove a truck into a Berlin Christmas market in 2016, or whether the group had planned to use knives._____• London is confronting a wave of murders and knife attacks, including five stabbings in 90 minutes on Thursday, that have prompted alarm and political recriminations. The surge in violent crime has largely targeted teenagers and minorities.The city’s police force has deployed 300 additional officers to tackle the problem, which has been blamed on drug gangs, budget cuts and disputes fueled by social media. But politicians debate whether an increased police presence is enough to lower what some fear will be the highest rate of violence in more than a decade.Above, the police investigating the scene of a murder in London last week._____• The #MeToo movement hit the Swedish Academy, which awards the Nobel Prize in Literature, after three members quit and a fourth threatened to leave in the wake of abuse accusations against a cultural figure with close ties to the institution.The crisis stemmed from sexual assault and harassment accusations by 18 women against Jean-Claude Arnault, who owns an influential private club funded by the academy.The departures have raised questions about the inner workings of the group, whose members are elected for life, and garnered criticism for enabling abuse by powerful allies.Above, Peter Englund, one of the academy members who quit, in Stockholm in 2014.• Deutsche Bank  replaced its chief executive after years of losses and scandals. Christian Sewing, above right, a longtime insider, is the fourth person in four years to lead the troubled bank, but will face the same problems that bedeviled his predecessors.• Among the headlines to watch for this week: Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, will face two days of U.S. congressional hearings over user data that had been improperly harvested by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which was connected to the Trump and Brexit campaigns.• A new E.U. data protection law goes into effect next month, strengthening people’s control over their personal information and placing greater requirements on how companies like Facebook and Google handle users’ data. Here’s what it means.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The Vatican arrested a monsignor on suspicion of possessing child pornography in the United States and Canada, the latest blow to the Roman Catholic Church as it struggles to overcome repeated cases of sexual abuse among its clergy. [The New York Times]• Prince Charles, while on a weeklong tour in Australia, was reunited with a woman who made headlines 40 years ago, when she was 14, for kissing him at Cairns Airport in Queensland. [BBC]•  Texas became the first state to deploy U.S. National Guard troops to the Mexican border after President Trump announced he would order the military there. [The New York Times]• Paul Le Roux, one of the world’s least known but most prodigious criminals, confessed to an astonishing array of crimes, including shipping guns from Indonesia, trafficking methamphetamines out of North Korea and taking part in at least five murders. [The New York Times]• In the Czech Republic, long-lost film and audio recordings of a notorious anti-Semitic show trial ordered by Stalin have been discovered. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Which is better during exercise: bananas or sports drinks? (It may not be what you think.)• How to start working out.• Recipe of the day: Ease into weeknight cooking with oven-baked miso tofu over rice.• Modern Love: A divorced woman seeking no-strings-attached liaisons learned a sobering lesson about matrimony — by sleeping with married men.• Norse sagas refer to “sunstones,” and scientists think they now know what those are: translucent crystals called calcite that the Vikings may have used to guide ships as far as Greenland when weather was poor.• And Japan’s new gleam of prosperity has rekindled an interest in the 1980s, the economic boom years that were “a time of Champagne, garish colors and bubbly disco dance-floor anthems.”Before March fades too far from our memories, we wanted to follow up on a back story that appeared recently in the versions of our Morning Briefing in Asia and Europe.In it, we explained to our international audience the history of the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, which acquired the nickname “March Madness” in the 1980s.As it relates to basketball, March Madness can be traced to 1939, when it was used by the Illinois High School Association to describe a statewide high-school basketball tournament: “A little March madness may complement and contribute to sanity and help keep society on an even keel.”One of our erudite readers, however, pointed out that the link between March and madness is much older than the 20th century: The old English phrase “mad as a March hare” stretches back to the 1500s.The idiom, used to describe someone who is crazy or irrational, derives its meaning from the behavior of hares at the beginning of breeding season.In Lewis Carroll’s “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” from 1865, the March Hare famously attends the Mad Hatter’s tea party, before which Alice thinks: “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May, it won’t be raving mad — at least not so mad as it was in March.”Claire Moses contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe referendum to leave the European Union was won on a promise to “take back control.” On the Continent, we wonder whether the British have lost not only control but their minds.By Sylvie KauffmannMs. Kauffmann is the editorial director of Le Monde.PARIS — If French voters, unsettled by the revolt of the Yellow Vests, are tempted to use referendums to enhance the democratic process, they should look at the sad spectacle across the Channel: the British people trying to pick up the shards of their future after their House of Commons rejected the Brexit deal that Prime Minister Theresa May had spent 18 months negotiating with the European Union — on the basis of a referendum. It is hard to think of a more powerful deterrent. For three years, Continental Europe has watched with bewilderment, despair and exasperation as the world’s oldest democracy embarked on a path that no country has tried before: leaving the European Union.We watched a young, ambitious British prime minister, David Cameron, gamble that the June 23, 2016, referendum would strengthen Britain’s position within the union because the vote would be to remain. We watched him fail, resign and disappear. After a referendum campaign marred by fake news, lies, false promises and attacks against immigrants, we watched Westminster’s lively political culture plunge into chaos. We watched a former empire, winner of two world wars, aspire to become Singapore upon Thames. We watched Brexit ministers under Mrs. May, confused by incoherent policies and a nightmarish negotiation, throw in one towel after another. And we are now observing, dumbfounded, the growing possibility of a second referendum, promoted by smart but desperate people, convinced that it will undo the first one, which approved Brexit by 51.9 percent. From the Continent rises a clamor of “Oh, no, not another one!”Ironically, the Brexit referendum was won on the promise to “take back control.” Sometimes we wondered whether the British had lost not only control but also their minds. We came to dread conversations with our dearest friends from England, now so obsessed with Brexit that they would forget to mention the weather. As journalists, we felt sympathy for heartbroken British diplomats putting a brave face on a decision that they had to carry out, when deep down they knew they were heading to disaster.But most of all, this process has taught us about the strength of the European Union in a way that we never suspected.There was Mrs. May’s surrealistic, elegant love letter to the union, “our closest friend,” to ask for divorce, on March 28, 2017. You don’t so easily put an end to 44 years of shared life. Activating Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to start the process of separation, the prime minister insisted that Europe should “remain strong and prosperous, capable of projecting its values, leading in the world.”“Perhaps now more than ever,” she wrote, “the world needs the liberal, democratic values of Europe.” So, one wondered, why on earth leave it? Indeed, Mrs. May herself was initially a “Remainer” but would end up exhausting her meager political capital fighting to deliver the opposite: Such was her fate, and such was the absurdity of Brexit.To be fair, Britain’s relationship with the union was never an easy one. In the 1960s President Charles de Gaulle twice vetoed Britain’s integration, convinced that Britain would always try to impose its terms on a common market. Britain finally joined what was then the European Economic Community in 1973 and did shape its single market. Margaret Thatcher’s famous “I want my money back” shook Brussels and fed lingering suspicions that the British had joined the union only to slow it down.“The British always had one foot in the E.U. and one foot out — now with Brexit they want the opposite,” a French legislator, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, joked. But Britain had strong allies among the other member states. Its first-class diplomatic personnel brought welcome expertise to Brussels. Even the French understood that the British were a powerful addition to this extraordinary supranational entity.Hence the idea, sold by the Brexiteers to their voters, that negotiating new terms with the Continent would be easy because the union had so much to lose in this divorce. It was even expected that other countries would follow Britain’s example. “Who’s next?” was the only question that President Trump put to the European Council president, Donald Tusk, in a phone call in January 2017, I was told by Anthony Gardner, the American ambassador to the European Union at the time.It didn’t turn out that way.The European Commission designated an affable Frenchman, Michel Barnier, as its chief negotiator and gave him a team of 60, drawn from 19 nationalities. A former center-right member of Parliament, government minister and union commissioner, Mr. Barnier viewed Brexit as “a lose-lose case” and was determined that the union would lose as little as possible. He understood early that unity would be crucial and repeatedly toured the remaining 27 member countries to brief their leaders. Doing so, Mr. Barnier observed “a new feeling of gravity” among European leaders, spurred by the realization that faced with Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin, Europe must not be weakened by Brexit. So instead of intra-European infighting and rivalry, London’s negotiators met a solid wall of unity and sense of purpose. The European Union became so relevant that exiting it is not an issue anymore, even among the most Euroskeptic governments.Some are more patient than others. Last month, President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania tweeted her Christmas wish for Britain: “Finally decide what you really want and Santa will deliver.” On Twitter, Germany’s economy minister, Peter Altmaier, professed admiration for “the epic struggle of the British people,” and more than 20 German politicians and celebrities wrote Britons an emotional letter saying they “would always have friends in Germany and Europe.” Others secretly pray for Britain to finally leave, solve its domestic problems and come back in a decade or two.The ball is in Britain’s court, facing a March 29 date to exit with or without a deal. E.U. governments are accelerating preparations to face a no-deal catastrophe. There was another, less glorious lesson from the Brexit saga. The uprising that brought it in 2016 was not, it turns out, isolated.“We made the mistake of thinking that Brexit was a purely British problem,” said an adviser to President Emmanuel Macron of France. “It was not. It is a European problem, and the Yellow Vests are part of it.”From west to east and east to west, the revolt against elites and inequalities has spread. The associated lies, the demagogy, the divisions that are familiar to American voters are now common in Europe. France, which we assumed had been spared thanks to Mr. Macron’s election in 2017, now faces a somber ritual of weekly violent protests. Glued to the BBC over the past few days, some of us, awed by such riveting political theater, could not help envying at least the style with which the British have handled their own bout of madness.Sylvie Kauffmann is the editorial director and a former editor in chief of Le Monde and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPicture PromptsBy Natalie ProulxDid you participate in March Madness this year? If so, how? Did you make a bracket, join a pool or just watch the games? Who did you predict to be in the Final Four and the title game? In your opinion, what were the biggest upsets of the tournament?Did you watch the men’s or women’s national championship games? If so, what did you think of them and why?Overall, what was your reaction to this year’s tournament? How did it compare to previous years?Tell us in the comments, then read the related article to find out how Villanova defeated Michigan in the men’s championship game.Find many more ways to use our Picture Prompt feature in this lesson plan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The gig economy arrived on Wall Street.Lyft’s initial public offering values the company at $24.3 billion, pricing its shares at $72 each to become the first publicly traded ride-sharing app. It will begin trading on the Nasdaq on Friday.This opens a new chapter for Silicon Valley on the public markets. Uber’s initial public offering, coming in the next few months, is expected to be even bigger, and other disruptive tech darlings are also going public. Here’s who’ll get rich.In other tech news: The U.S. government sued Facebook, saying it engaged in discrimination by targeting housing ads based on race and religion. Twitter and Google may also be under scrutiny._____2. President Trump addressed a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., infused with his sense of vindication after the completion of the Mueller report.“The collusion delusion is over,” he told the cheering crowd. “This was nothing more than a sinister effort to undermine our historic election victory.”Three Times journalists are there.We examined the state of the economy under Mr. Trump. It’s his biggest bragging right, but it is shadowed by the Commerce Department’s downward revision of estimates for economic growth in the fourth quarter._____3. The Mueller report may be in, but the chasm between Democrats and Republicans is only growing wider.The House Intelligence Committee’s first hearing since the special counsel delivered his report fell into tumult as the committee tried to resume its own work on Russia’s intervention in the 2016 presidential election.Republicans called on the panel’s chairman, Adam Schiff, above right, to resign, and he accused them of turning a blind eye to President Trump’s wrongdoing.The Justice Department revealed that Mr. Mueller’s report came in at more than 300 pages, raising more questions about what information was left out of the four-page summary released by William Barr, the attorney general._____4. The U.S. wants to take a gay dating app out of Chinese hands.The Trump administration is pushing a Chinese firm, Beijing Kunlun, to relinquish its ownership of Grindr, over concerns that Beijing could use personal information on the U.S.-based app — like sexual orientation or dating habits — to blackmail or influence American officials.It appears to be the first case in which the U.S. has asserted that foreign control of a social media app has national security implications._____5. New York State filed a sweeping lawsuit against the Sackler family, which owns Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin.The lawsuit accuses members of the family of methodically erasing a paper trail of profits and shifting hundreds of millions of dollars to themselves through offshore entities as investigators closed in.It also lays out how OxyContin distributors helped pharmacies manipulate the timing and volume of orders to circumvent the monthly opioid limits as the epidemic of abuse exploded. Above, New York’s attorney general, Letitia James, announced the lawsuit.Spokesmen for Purdue Pharma and the Sackler family denied the allegations._____6. The Supreme Court rejected an appeal from gun owners to temporarily block a federal ban on bump stocks.Bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, were banned by the Trump administration as of Tuesday. The court’s action means the ban remains in force while court challenges move forward.For many, the traumatic memories of gun violence have an enduring impact. We talked to survivors of mass shootings who continue to struggle, even years later. Above, a father picking up his daughter after the Newtown, Conn., shooting in 2012._____5. It’s pronounced boot-edge-edge.Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., has a challenging last name (thanks to his father, who immigrated from Malta). And he has an unconventional résumé. But he’s drawing big crowds and has jumped to third place in a poll of Iowa voters for the 2020 Democratic caucus.We also took a look at Senator Cory Booker’s road from enforcer to criminal justice reformer, beginning with rocky oversight of the Newark Police Department, and Senator Kamala Harris’s small-dollar, yet formidable, online fund-raising operation._____8. Three really interesting science stories:An iceberg twice the size of New York City is about to split from Antarctica. Two rifts on the Brunt Ice Shelf, in West Antarctica, are nearing one another. They will create an iceberg over 560 square miles in size. We’ve mapped the timeline of the split.The first global analysis of a fungus that has been wiping out frogs for decades demonstrates that it is, in the words of one researcher, “the most deadly pathogen known to science.” It has caused major declines in more than 500 species of frogs around the world, and at least 90 are presumed to have gone extinct.Last, a British woman has never experienced pain or anxiety, even during childbirth and surgery. Scientists have finally figured out why._____9. A harbinger of spring has finally arrived: baseball’s official opening day.We have a look ahead at the Yankees’ season (they won today, pictured above), where the larger-than-life outfielder Aaron Judge has a murky financial future. Our baseball columnist also looks at how the Los Angeles Dodgers are shaping up and has an American league preview, too. With baseball season also comes baseball betting season — here are the odds.The N.C.A.A’s Round of 16 kicks off today. Our basketball columnist has a full preview of what lies ahead. (And this guy has a perfect bracket, at least so far.)There’s a different kind of March Madness also underway: It’s vasectomy season. That’s right, every year, men schedule their procedures in conjunction with the men’s basketball tournament so they can recuperate watching the games._____10. Finally, a look at the most diverse generation in American history.More than 68 million Americans belong to Generation Z, the demographic of those born between the mid-1990s and a few years ago. We asked them to describe their identities and what sets them apart.Thousands replied, using the language of their times — cisgender, queer, bi or just their preferred pronouns — terms in wide circulation to signal the pride, fluidity or suspicion of categories of sexual orientation, race and ethnicity.“I feel that I’m not fully a part of one culture,” said one. “I’m just dipping my uninvited toes into separate pools rather than immersing myself into one.”See for yourself what they had to say.And we wish you the kind of night of your choosing._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne Searcey and Emmanuel AkinwotuDAKAR, Senegal — The Nigerian Army, part of a military criticized for rampant human rights abuses, on Friday used the words of President Trump to justify its fatal shootings of rock-throwing protesters.Soldiers fired this Monday on a march of about 1,000 Islamic Shiite activists who had blocked traffic on the outskirts of the capital, Abuja. Videos that circulated on social media showed several protesters hurling rocks at heavily armed soldiers who then shot fleeing demonstrators in the back.The Nigerian military said three protesters were killed, but the toll appears to have been much higher.Amnesty International and leaders of the protest said more than 40 people were killed at the march and two smaller marches, with more than 100 wounded by bullets. A Reuters reporter counted 20 bodies at the main march.Human rights activists and many Nigerians were outraged at the military’s response, which echoed a similar confrontation in 2015, when soldiers killed nearly 350 protesters from the same group, the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, the largest and most recognizable face of Shiite Islam in the country. The group organizes frequent protest marches.Early Friday morning, the military responded to the criticism.The army’s official Twitter account posted a video, “Please Watch and Make Your Deductions,” showing Mr. Trump’s speech on Thursday in which he said rocks would be considered firearms if thrown toward the American military at the nation’s borders.“We’re not going to put up with that,” Mr. Trump said in the clip. “They want to throw rocks at our military, our military fights back.”[Read how Trump’s vulgar remarks about Africa didn’t keep him and Nigeria’s president from meeting.]The army deleted the post hours later without explanation after it had caused an uproar on social media.Mr. Trump is popular among groups in Nigeria’s mostly Christian south that admire his tough talk against Islamic extremism. Though a polarizing figure, some people praise what they regard as his straightforwardness and frank talk, despite his reported insult last year when he said Nigerians in the United States would never “go back to their huts” in Africa.Earlier this year after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria, during which Mr. Trump praised the Nigerian leader’s fight against the Islamic State in West Africa, Mr. Trump said he never again wanted to meet someone so lifeless as Mr. Buhari, The Financial Times reported.On Friday, John Agim, a spokesman for the Nigerian Army, said the initial posting of the video was a response to Amnesty International, which had criticized what it called the military’s use of excessive force.“We released that video to say if President Trump can say that rocks are as good as a rifle, who is Amnesty International?” he said. “What are they then saying? What did David use to kill Goliath? So a stone is a weapon.”“Our soldiers sustained injuries,” he continued. “The Shiites even burnt one of our vehicles, so what are Amnesty International saying?”The army has said as many as six soldiers were wounded during the protest after “thousands” of members of the sect overran a police checkpoint and blocked traffic along a highway.Soldiers had arrived to assist the police, a news release said, and were met with protesters who threw canisters of fuel, “large stones, catapults with dangerous objects and other dangerous items.”The military posted photos of six slingshots and one pocketknife on its Facebook page as evidence.“They wanted to take over the checkpoint with their weapons,” Mr. Agim said. “They knew it was there. We responded to them.”Ibrahim Musa, a spokesman for the Shiite group, said that on Monday security forces refused to let protesters, who numbered about 1,000, pass the checkpoint as they marched toward their destination. He said 13 protesters were killed during two other marches this week, one before and one after Monday’s deadly march.“Rocks are not equal to bullets,” he said. “The use of force is disproportionate. I don’t think President Trump is a good example — even in America many are critical of him. I am surprised that the army will use Trump as a role model.”There was no immediate comment from the White House on the Nigerian Army’s posting. But asked on Friday about whether he condoned American soldiers’ firing on migrants in a Mexico caravan if they attempted to cross the United States border, Mr. Trump said: “They won’t have to fire. What I don’t want is, I don’t want these people throwing rocks.”A State Department official in Washington, responding to the Nigerian shootings, said in a statement that the United States “supports regional efforts to fight terrorism and protect civilians, employing our full tool kit — including diplomacy, foreign assistance, senior military engagement, and security assistance.”The statement was a reiteration of a Twitter posting on Thursday by Tibor Nagy, assistant secretary for the State Department’s Bureau of African Affairs, in which he called for restraint on both sides and an investigation to hold all lawbreakers accountable.There was a conspicuous lack of comment on both the killings and the Nigerian Army’s response from President Buhari and Atitku Abubakar, his main challenger in elections scheduled for next February.Their silence may partly reflect the antipathy toward the Islamic Movement of Nigeria in their own bases of support.There were also social-media expressions of support for the military’s response.“If the military in my country doesn’t shoot back at a group of people who chose to block the highway and throw rocks at them, how would I trust them if they had to go toe-to-toe with a foreign enemy?!” wrote a senior aide to the governor of Kogi State in central Nigeria. “Please, use bullets to cure those fanatics of their madness!!Despite its history of massacring innocent civilians in the war with the Islamist extremist group Boko Haram, detaining innocent citizens and raping women and girls fleeing war-torn communities, the Nigerian military has been the recipient of warplane sales and other gear from the United States. American officials are particularly worried about a branch of Boko Haram operating in Nigeria that says it has ties to the Islamic State.A recent report mandated by Congress on the American strategy to improve security in Nigeria played down Nigerian military abuses, said Matthew Page, a former State Department expert on the region who is now an associate fellow in the Africa program of Chatham House, a British research group.Mr. Page said that even under the Obama administration, Washington sent mixed signals to Nigeria on human rights, adding that diplomats and policymakers have been “house-trained by the Nigerian government to avoid public condemnation.”“Such concerns are now voiced in private, if at all. Detainee deaths and child imprisonment continues, and extrajudicial killings by Nigerian soldiers are not even covered up anymore,” he said. “Under the Trump administration, any senior-level squeamishness about Nigerian military abuses has evaporated.”Almost 20 years after the end of military rule in Nigeria, protests are still viewed by many as a public disturbance and threat to the authorities.Additionally, the Islamic Movement of Nigeria is seen as a threat by some Nigerians to the Sunni form of Islam that is dominant in Nigeria’s north. The group does not recognize the Nigerian Constitution, claiming it excludes protections for minorities. Many Nigerian authorities say the group has the larger aim of creating an Islamic republic inspired by Iran.In his meeting with President Buhari at the White House this year, Mr. Trump commented on the killings of Christians in Nigeria’s Middle Belt, where clashes over land use have broken out between mostly Christian farmers and mostly Muslim herdsmen.“We have had very serious problems with Christians who are being murdered in Nigeria,” Mr. Trump told the Nigerian president, who is Muslim.While many farmers have died, the clashes also have killed scores of Muslim herders.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the number of protesters at the Monday march. It was about 1,000, not 200.Dionne Searcey reported from Dakar, and Emmanuel Akinwotu from Lagos, NigeriaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben SisarioThe Weeknd opened at No. 1 on the latest Billboard album chart with a surprise EP, in a week that also had high-charting debuts from Rich the Kid and Kacey Musgraves.“My Dear Melancholy” (XO/Republic), a six-song EP announced just days before its release on March 30, becomes the Weeknd’s third No. 1 in a row, after “Starboy” in 2016 and “Beauty Behind the Madness” in 2015. “My Dear Melancholy” had the equivalent of 169,000 sales in the United States last week, which included 141 million streams and 68,000 copies sold as a complete album, according to Nielsen.Rich the Kid, an Atlanta rapper, opened at No. 2 with “The World Is Yours,” and Ms. Musgraves, a country singer, started at No. 4 with her critically acclaimed new album “Golden Hour.”Also this week, XXXTentacion is in third place with “?,” and the soundtrack to “The Greatest Showman” is No. 5. Last week’s No. 1, Jack White’s “Boarding House Reach,” fell to No. 62.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie Rogers and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — No collusion. Let’s party.After two years spent in a defensive crouch, the president’s aides have emerged from their emotional bunkers in celebration of what they say is a total vindication of President Trump.That view may be based on the best possible interpretation of the letter written by Attorney General William P. Barr summarizing the conclusions of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. But any caveats in the letter or the possibility of surprises when more of the report is released has not put a damper on the celebratory dinners at downtown Washington restaurants, the number of teamwork-focused photos posted on social media or the hugs in the White House driveway between television interviews.“We’re colluding,” Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, told reporters as she embraced Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, in the driveway after returning from a Fox News appearance on Monday.Passing in the WH driveway. @KellyannePolls after @FoxNews interview and @PressSec on the way to @FoxNews interview, meet at press gaggle site. They hug and with arms around one another, Conway jokes, "we're colluding." pic.twitter.com/uSJlIelE5XInside the White House, the reaction was more low key, but aides still wanted to make their happiness known: Ms. Sanders posted, and then deleted, a celebratory Instagram photo of a scowling Mr. Trump flanked by a team of lawyers and his social media director, Dan Scavino.Later that day, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, surfaced at one of his favorite haunts: the Trump International Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue. Relieved by the investigation’s results, which he had framed a day earlier as “better than I expected,” a jovial Mr. Giuliani and Brad Parscale, the president’s campaign manager, drew a crowd of supporters who waited for the opportunity to mingle.“We feel totally and completely vindicated,” Harlan Hill, a Republican strategist and campaign advisory board member who took a thumbs-up photo with Mr. Giuliani. “It feels like a validation of the election.”He added, “The mood from the pundit class to friends of mine that work in the White House is over-the-moon ecstasy.”Along with wisecracks, there was a decidedly less playful theme emerging that once the party is over, the president’s perceived enemies should pay.Mr. Hill said he shared the president’s grievances, including the suggestion that anyone involved in the Russia investigation’s origins had engaged in treasonous behavior.“I would love for those responsible to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” Mr. Hill said. “I’d like to see some sort of investigation.”That mood is shared within the administration. Ms. Sanders is using her Twitter platform as press secretary to single out Mr. Trump’s “haters,” using a March Madness-style bracket to identify perceived enemies of the administration, most of them journalists, by name.Mr. Trump, who has barely contained his anger over what he feels was a sustained personal attack in several encounters with reporters since Sunday, suggested on Tuesday that the origins of the Mueller investigation could be traced to the Obama White House, and made it clear that for him, the process had not been political but personal.“This should never happen to a president again,” Mr. Trump said. “We can’t allow that to take place.”On Twitter, Mr. Trump has continued his usual drumbeat against the news media, but has cast a wider net by calling all “mainstream” journalists the enemy of the people.“The Mainstream Media is under fire and being scorned all over the World as being corrupt and FAKE,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. “For two years they pushed the Russian Collusion Delusion when they always knew there was No Collusion. They truly are the Enemy of the People and the Real Opposition Party!”In a closed-door meeting with Senate Republicans at a policy lunch on Tuesday, where he promoted his emboldened administration’s decision to try to strike down the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Trump praised Mr. Barr for releasing such a quick summary of Mr. Mueller’s report.“I love the A.G. He works fast. I love this guy. You told me I would,” Mr. Trump told the group, according to a person familiar with his remarks, before suggesting that he would not like to see any leaks coming from the meeting. He also shared his reasoning for doubling down on his targets.“People love it when you attack the press,” he told the group.The president’s targets include individual Democrats and law enforcement institutions. Senator Lindsey Graham, a White House ally, said he would investigate anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. and Justice Department, presumably shifting the focus back to Mr. Trump’s Democratic opponent from 2016, Hillary Clinton.Some of the targets have been happy to hit back.Representative Adam B. Schiff, a California Democrat and vocal critic of the administration who heads the House Intelligence Committee, is among those facing pressure from the White House to resign. Asked by a reporter Monday evening whether he feared that Republicans would keep up the pummeling in a public hearing on Russia hosted by his committee on Thursday, Mr. Schiff laughed.“I’ve gotten used to the attacks from Trump and his allies in Congress,” he said. “There’s nothing particularly new or novel about that.”One figure conspicuously absent from the president’s ire is Mr. Mueller himself, but Mr. Trump’s earlier suggestion that the special counsel acted honorably during the process was undermined by Mr. Giuliani, who said on CNN on Tuesday that he was not left with that impression.“I would have to disagree with my client,” Mr. Giuliani said. He also suggested that Mr. Mueller was “confused” about what Mr. Barr said was the special counsel’s conclusion on obstruction of justice: that although the evidence fell short of proving Mr. Trump committed a crime, it “does not exonerate him.”“Maybe I was in the trenches more,” Mr. Giuliani said.Joe Lockhart, a Democratic strategist who was President Bill Clinton’s press secretary when he was impeached, said in an interview that the White House was playing a dangerous game by declaring full victory and going on the attack before the full results of Mr. Mueller’s report — including full details on the actions Mr. Trump took during the course of the investigation — became public.Likening this White House’s victory celebration to President George W. Bush’s premature “Mission Accomplished” declaration during the Iraq war, Mr. Lockhart said the administration has “left it wide open for every new development to be a big story.” He added: “I just think they struck the exact wrong tone. Right now it can only go one way, which is bad for them.”Other Democrats are watching the behavior of the president and his aides closely, but are taking a more cautious approach as Republicans celebrate and go on the offensive. In remarks during a closed-door meeting of House Democrats in the basement of the Capitol on Tuesday morning, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California sought to quiet her own troops.“Be calm,” Ms. Pelosi said, according to an aide in the room. “Take a deep breath. Don’t become like them. We have to handle this handle this professionally, officially, patriotically, strategically.”The speaker paused.“Let’s just get the goods,” she added.But among the president’s aides, there is a feeling of relief on behalf of a president and group of voters who have been maligned during the two-year Russia investigation, Ms. Conway said in an interview.“It’s vindication and celebration, but also frustration and consternation,” she said. “This was a full-on defenestration and attempted dehumanization. The same people who were wrong about the 2016 election were wrong again.”She added, “Moving on might take a minute.”Peter Baker and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe telecom giant promised it wouldn’t use its merger with Time Warner to hurt consumers. But now it is doing precisely that.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in antitrust and telecommunications.HBO has long been the crown jewel of American television. It was HBO, in the 1990s and 2000s, that kick-started the golden age of television, funding and running shows like “The Sopranos” and “The Wire.” And it is HBO that still captures broad audiences with shows like “Game of Thrones.”So it’s disheartening to see this venerable institution of pop culture wielded as a weapon by AT&T — HBO’s new owner since the blockbuster merger in June between AT&T (a telecommunications giant) and Time Warner (a media giant). Last week, HBO went dark for both DISH and DISH-Sling, the main competitors to DirecTV and DirecTV Now, AT&T’s television services. This brazenly anticompetitive strategy does not portend a happy future for the viewing public, or for HBO itself.At the risk of saying “we told you so,” it was widely predicted before the merger that AT&T would use HBO and other Time Warner media properties in just this way. When the Justice Department sued (unsuccessfully) to block the merger last year, its case was premised on the idea that AT&T would use its ownership of such properties to hurt its rivals in telecommunications. And now it is doing so.Post-merger, AT&T has the means and the incentive to raise prices on valuable content (like HBO or the coverage of the N.C.A.A. “March Madness” basketball tournament) for cheaper, “unintegrated” telecom competitors that have been saving consumers money. If its rivals refuse to pay up, it can withhold the content entirely, diminishing them as competitors.Defending its proposed acquisition of Time Warner in federal court in the spring, AT&T declared, swore and promised that it would never use Time Warner’s media properties as leverage against its rivals. The acquisition was all about “vision” and a “new AT&T” — a company that would be able to better compete with the content creation and distribution abilities of upstart powerhouses like Amazon and Netflix.At trial, AT&T’s chief executive, Randall Stephenson, was asked if AT&T might use its ownership of content like HBO to raise prices or otherwise undermine its telecom competitors. Under oath, he answered that the premise was “absurd.”But what looks absurd now is the reasoning of Judge Richard Leon of United States District Court in Washington, who took Mr. Stevenson’s bait, hook, line and sinker. Sitting as judge and jury, Judge Leon seemed to buy AT&T’s self-serving testimony, ignoring or dismissing the warnings of most people in the industry. He concluded that AT&T was merely attempting to retool itself for the 21st century, not looking for a structural advantage.To reach that conclusion meant neglecting some basic economics. Presented with a clear demonstration by the economist Carl Shapiro of how AT&T’s bargaining power would increase after the merger, Judge Leon opted to assume that AT&T was not interested in profit maximization.Unfortunately, there is every reason to think AT&T will keep using HBO and other media properties as weapons in the industry. The more it raises prices or withholds content, the more it either harms its rivals or gains new customers for itself. It’s a win-win situation made possible by the merger’s integration of content and content delivery.Nor should we ignore the effects of AT&T’s anticompetitive tactics on the nature of the content created by HBO and its other media properties. After all, the more people there are who watch HBO, the more effective HBO is as a weapon for attacking other telecom companies and pushing people into becoming AT&T or DirecTV subscribers. This creates an incentive for AT&T to refashion HBO into a network that aims for the widest possible audience — as opposed to its traditional emphasis on quality.Is it a coincidence that AT&T recently shut down the enormously popular FilmStruck subscription-streaming service from WarnerMedia (as Time Warner is now named), which gave viewers access to the best of Turner Classic Movies and Criterion Collection films? Or did FilmStruck fail the crucial test of providing sufficient leverage?Given the new and concrete evidence that AT&T does plan to use HBO in an anticompetitive fashion, state and federal government ought not sit on the sidelines. The Justice Department has already appealed Judge’s Leon’s merger approval, and while judicial review is generally confined to the record of the case, the court of appeals might remand the case for more fact-finding or cite AT&T’s post-merger conduct as evidence of the errors in Judge Leon’s economic reasoning.Meanwhile, it is not too late for a state to bring an antitrust lawsuit to undo the merger, based on the new evidence. The most obvious candidate is New York, where HBO is headquartered, and where Letitia James, the attorney general-elect, might want to prove her bona fides.Whoever takes the lead, there is simply no calculation in which the use of HBO as an anticompetitive weapon is good for the future of America — for its telecom industry, its customers or its TV shows.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, the author of the forthcoming book “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age” and a contributing opinion writer.Correction: November 8, 2018An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of AT&T’s chief executive. He is Randall Stephenson, not Randall Stevenson.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySunday RoutineBy Kathleen LucadamoIf Barry Rohrssen, 55, the associate head coach for men’s basketball at St. John’s University in Queens, seems a bit preoccupied this weekend, it’s probably because he’s following the news of who will be invited to “the big dance,” as the N.C.A.A. tournament is called. (St. John’s will be sitting this one out.) You might also spot him at church or grocery shopping in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, where he lives with his fiancée, Kerry Parker, 33. Mr. Rohrssen, who is nicknamed Slice, had a minor acting role in the 1992 film “Glengarry Glen Ross.” He said New York “is one of the few towns where you can do something like that; where else do you have opportunities to be a coach and be in a film?” BREAKFAST OF COACHES I start my Sundays off with breakfast. Basically, every Sunday it’s Frosted Mini-Wheats. It’s like the only day of the week I’ll have them.SPORTS, SPIRITUALITY, STEAM It’s the one day where I’ll start it watching a television show and end it watching a television show. I always start Sunday watching “The Sports Reporters” on ESPN with Mike Lupica and John Saunders. That goes from 9:30 to 10. At 10 a.m., I’ll watch Joel Osteen. Then right after that, I’ll go to the health club, you know, steam and change.NEW YORK ROOTS I live in the parish of St. Gabriel’s Church, and they have 11:30 Mass on Sundays. When you are from New York and if you are Catholic, you always kind of grow up with, “Oh, what parish are you from, what parish are you from?” I’m formerly the head coach of Manhattan College. That’s how I wound up in Riverdale. I’ve kept this place for the past decade even throughout my travels, coaching with the Portland Trail Blazers and the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Kentucky, I always proudly maintained my residence in New York.LOCAL FLAVORS After Mass, my fiancée and I take a ride over to Bronxville, to grab some lunch at Lange’s. After that, it’s usually grocery shopping for the week either in the local Key Food or Whole Foods. Then there is a local Chinese restaurant in Riverdale that we go to every Sunday evening. A place called the Hunan Balcony.FAMILY TIME Often, I try to see my mom. I try to see her as often as possible and take her to lunch or dinner. She’s now out in Bay Ridge. She’s from Park Slope. She likes to go to Junior’s. We’ve been going there for years, ever since I was young. She started taking me there when I was in grammar school. It just holds a lot of good memories for so many years.PRE-GAME PREP If we are playing in the Garden, we stay at a hotel in New York City. Depending on what time the game is, what you have is a shootaround or a walk-through. A shootaround lasts about 60 minutes. A walk-through could last 30 minutes, where you are going to walk through some of the things you want to review, opponents, top plays, some things from your own offense.POST-GAME MEAL A restaurant I enjoy after a game is a place in the Village called Valbella. I also like Peter Luger in Brooklyn. Always with my fiancée and family or friends.EYE ON THE PRIZE Basketball coaching isn’t just a profession. It’s a lifestyle, and it’s really 24/7, 365. You are on call all the time; you are always doing something with your players. You do have to go recruiting on Sundays, and you do have to go to see games. Recruiting is a year-round job. There’s an old saying: “Recruiting is like shaving. If you miss a day, it can get ugly.”THE MADNESS In March you like to be playing. That’s why they call it March Madness. Last year, Kentucky, where I coached, was undefeated going into March. Had 38 wins. We were 38 and 0. And we didn’t lose until April in the Final Four. So the goal is always to be playing in March and go as deep into that month as you can.ENDGAME I try to watch “60 Minutes.” Then I wrap up the evening by watching a gentleman named Bruce Beck on Channel 4. Bruce Beck has a show every Sunday night called “Sports Final.” He goes on about midnight. He does a nice job on the show, especially with the local teams.Follow The New York Times’s Metro coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the New York Today newsletter.AdvertisementAre Kourtney, Kim, Khloé, Kendall and Kylie America’s savviest C.E.O.s?CreditCreditPhoto Illustration by The New York Times; Getty ImagesSupported byBy Amy ChozickEven when bad things happen to the Kardashians, they still make money.In February, rumors surfaced that the reality star Khloé Kardashian’s boyfriend, the N.B.A. player Tristan Thompson, had cheated on her again, this time with her half sister’s best friend, Jordyn Woods.Jordyn was so close to Kylie Jenner, the youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner sisters, that they lived together, and Kylie, who has her own makeup empire, had named several product lines in Jordyn’s honor. That included the Jordy Lip Kit, a matching set of velvety lip gloss and liner in raspberry red.After days of speculation about the affair, Kardashian devotees noticed the price of the Jordy Lip Kit on the Kylie Cosmetics website had been slashed from $27 to $13.50. Customer reviews of the product began to take an angry tone: “This shade smells like betrayal” and “Be mindful of the shade as wearing it may lead to biting the hand that feeds you.” But it also sold out, almost immediately. And there was a big spike in sales of other Kylie Cosmetics merchandise too.Khloé’s relationship problems and Kylie and Jordyn’s rift — like every other chapter in the life of this family that has come of age in public — promise to be drawn out in excruciating detail on the 16th season of “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” which premieres on Sunday on E!On the phone the other day, Kylie told me she didn’t know that the Jordy had been discounted and that she called an employee as soon as she heard. She said it had been put on sale a couple weeks earlier as the company switched from white to black packaging. “That is just not my character. I would never do something like that and when I saw it, I was like, thrown back,” Kylie said. “Jordyn knows I didn’t actually put it on sale.”Even so, l’affaire Jordy is emblematic of a well-established Kardashian ecosystem: Family turmoil feeds the celebrity news cycle, which drives interest in the TV show, which then helps to publicize an ever-increasing number of sponsorships and branded products.In interviews, Kris Jenner, 63, the self-identified “momager,” and each of her five daughters — Kourtney, 39, Kim, 38, Khloé, 34, Kendall, 23, and Kylie, 21 — talked at length about the family business. It amounted to a master class in the art of monetizing influence.Together they have transformed the way diet drinks, designer handbags, doomed music festivals and more (and more!) advertise, including through paid Instagram posts up to $1 million apiece. The sisters are dominating the sneaker industry with multimillion-dollar deals at Adidas and, before that, Puma and Nike (through Kim’s husband, Kanye West). Such is their power to move digital markets that Snapchat lost $1.3 billion in value after Kylie tweeted, “Sooo does anyone else not open Snapchat anymore? Or is it just me … ugh this is so sad.”Even if you’ve never seen a single episode of their show, chances are that you’ve bought a Kardashian-fronted or -backed something (Pepsi? Calvin Klein? Proactiv?). The sisters are a media company if it swallowed a makeup conglomerate, mated with a fashion line and birthed athleisure babies. (Their only brother, Rob, 32, has even backed a few ventures, including a line of novelty socks.)In 2007, Kris pitched the producer Ryan Seacrest a reality TV series that would follow her three high-maintenance oldest daughters, Kourtney, Kim and Khloé, as they clawed their way to A-list from D-list. [Sign up for Wait — our newsletter that brings you news of social unrest, rich people — and murder!]“She said, ‘We will be vulnerable at all points of impact no matter what presents itself and that struck me,’” Seacrest said in an interview. His production company was so fledgling that he had to send an employee to Best Buy to buy a video camera to record a Kardashian pool party that became part of the sizzle reel to pitch E! The cable channel initially passed, but Seacrest convinced executives.At the time, the family wasn’t well known but Kim was friends with Paris Hilton, at least, and had a sex tape. Kris billed the show as a “modern-day ‘Brady Bunch.’” (That is, if Jan had a sex tape). Kylie and Kendall, now idols to a younger fan base, were just 9 and 11 when the show started. “Kylie and I for a really long time wanted no part of it, we just wanted to go to our rooms and iChat with our friends,” Kendall said.Kylie now has a daughter of her own, Stormi, one of nine in the next, next generation of Kardashian-Jenners (ranging between 11 months and 9 years, with another on the way). Most started their lives onscreen; a 2010 episode has footage of Kourtney pulling her son, Mason, out of her birth canal herself. (“I think you ripped something, that’s like not normal,” Khloé says in the episode.) The grandchildren are characters on the show, paparazzi targets, stars of their parents’ social media streams and cherished by fans in the 160 countries who have watched them grow up. “Everybody always says how I pulled Mason out of me!” Kourtney said. “Even if fans see Mason, they say I can’t believe it was that long ago.” Well after Kim has aged out of tube tops, it seems this “Truman Show” of the one percent will live on.And an expanding menu of Kardashians offers something for everyone. Is body positivity your thing? Try Khloé’s Good American jeans. (“I never knew I was considered chubby until I became famous,” Khloé told me.) Want “working mom” lifestyle products? On April 2, Kourtney will debut Poosh, a beauty and wellness website named after her daughter, Penelope. Or perhaps you’re into oversize camouflage jackets and wedge booties? Kendall + Kylie is there for you.Most of these labels are sold almost exclusively online and with virtually no marketing budget, thanks to the women’s massive presence on social media. In the first five minutes of Kim introducing her KKW Beauty line in 2017, she sold an estimated $14.4 million worth of product (or about 300,000 items). Last year, Kendall, who has become the world’s highest-paid model, made $26.5 million for just 53 sponsored Instagram posts, according to Captiv8, a marketing firm that connects brands to influencers. Kylie was 15 when Kris took her to trademark her idea to sell matching lip gloss and liner together. In March, Forbes named Kylie the youngest “self-made billionaire ever,” causing heated debate about the definition of self-made. “I can’t say I’ve done it by myself,” Kylie told me, driving to an airport in Los Angeles. “If they’re just talking finances, technically, yes, I don’t have any inherited money. But I have had a lot of help and a huge platform.” Still, people tend to talk dismissively about the Kardashians as “famous for being famous,” rather than as entrepreneurs with an influence and reach perhaps second only to the reality TV star in the Oval Office. Maybe that’s because they are so unabashedly materialistic (Khloé recently posted an Instagram photo of her 10-month-old daughter, True, in a $160,000 pile of multicolored Birkin bags). Or maybe it’s because they are empowered women who also care deeply about achieving the perfect smoky eye?Whatever the reason, those perceptions might be changing. “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” started as a way for the family to get famous. With their glammed up mix of high-low culture (i.e. driving a Bentley but eating Chipotle), it has since become a kind of infomercial for the Kardashian Industrial Complex. And, regardless of what you think of what the Kardashians are selling, their never-ending hustle is an undeniable lesson in female entrepreneurship. In the first episode of the new season, Kim and Kylie discuss the packaging for Kylie Cosmetics. Later this season, we’ll see Khloé balancing new motherhood with her work with Good American (co-founded with Emma Grede) and Kourtney putting the finishing touches on Poosh. “I could’ve created anything, but if they don’t show up, or you’ve got a couple weak links, it could’ve been a disaster,” Kris said of her children by phone from Los Angeles, on her way to a photo shoot for Kylie. She had just come from a meeting with Kourtney and attended three other meetings before that. It was 10:30 a.m. “It’s definitely a grind and isn’t for the weary.” At this point, 12 television crew members — already shooting the 17th season — were pointing cameras at Kris through the car window, waiting for her to hang up with me and get out of the vehicle. “People don’t know how much work goes into it,” she said.Kanye West was dropping his daughter North off at school when Kim Kardashian West sneaked into her home office, upstairs, to take my call. The couple’s two younger children, Saint and Chicago, played downstairs. In May, they will have a fourth baby, a son via a surrogate — but if you have a pulse and an Instagram account, you already knew that. “I’m frantically trying to get the room ready,” Kim told me. “It’s madness, but the best madness.”In her living room, she said, there’s a “mood board” that she and Kanye constantly work on: a collection of looks they like, or tweaks they want to make to Kim’s cosmetic, fragrance and accessory lines. She can’t be everywhere, alas. So across the globe in Tel Aviv, a perfect replica of Kim’s face — the almond eyes with the ample false lashes, the cheekbones with the heavy contouring — was sitting in the offices of the eyewear designer Carolina Lemke.In April, Carolina Lemke will introduce a Kim Kardashian West sunglass collection, its first in the U.S. The shades, black and bulky, some dotted with rhinestones, have already made several cameos on Kim’s Instagram feed. The idea for them came through her friend Bar Refaeli, the Israeli supermodel. “She showed me the commercial she’d shot for them and I thought it was so cute and well done, and she said ‘We should launch in the U.S. and you should do it here!’” Kim said.Kim emphasized that she didn’t just put her name on these projects. She designed the glasses, got deep into the manufacturing process and dictated what the packaging would look like (and then dictated it again after Kanye weighed in). “It wasn’t like ‘Hey, will you give an endorsement and step into our world,’” Kim said. “It was like, ‘What do you want this to be?’”She said she’s just as involved with KKW Beauty, KKW Fragrance and the mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood, consistently one of the most downloaded games. “If I changed my hair, I’ll let them know — ‘Hey guys, dye my hair right now’ or ‘Make a character with pink hair,’” she said of her frequent talks with the app developers.Making a brand so dependent on personal appeal means if fans are disappointed, sales can decline. Early last year, when Kylie posted less on social media as she tried to hide her pregnancy, buzz around her brand quieted, analysts said.“Yeah, a huge part of my business is on social media,” Kylie said. “But it’s important to take those personal moments.” Except for the camera crew? She laughed. “Besides national television, I like to keep it really private.”She is using Instagram to define a new level of influencer power, building a billion-dollar company, Kylie Cosmetics, that she fully owns. Kim alone has nearly three times more Instagram followers (132.6 million, at current count) than all of Condé Nast’s U.S. print publications combined, according to Captiv8 data, so why not send those fans to your own online store? Only last year did Kim and Kylie start selling their makeup and fragrances at the chain Ulta, trying to appeal to older buyers.“I think in the beginning of our careers we got really excited like ‘OMG, a brand wants me!’ and sometimes it might not be an alignment with things you believe in,” Khloé told me. “You step into this whirlwind and this whole life and for the past five, six years, at least, we’ve been very particular about what we do and very authentic — I know that word is so overused.”And yet Khloé and her sisters still post sponsored ads for HiSmile teeth whitening kits and Flat Tummy teas and appetite-suppressing lollipops. After one recent post by Khloé, in which she hawks medically dubious meal-replacement shakes wearing a pink bra and showing off chiseled abs, the actress Jameela Jamil, a frequent Kardashian critic, fired off an angry comment. “If you’re too irresponsible to: a) own up to the fact that you have a personal trainer, nutritionist, probable chef and a surgeon to achieve your aesthetic, rather than this laxative product … And b) tell them the side effects,” she wrote, listing the side effects, “then I guess I have to."Kris is sanguine about such criticism. “I don’t live in that negative energy space,” she said “Ninety percent of people will be really excited about the family and the journey and who we are.” Khloé, fresh from a workout, said that she’s never had a chef and that she posts all of her personal training sessions on Snapchat, well aware that not everyone can afford such a luxury. “Well, listen, I am showing you what to do, silly person, 15 repetitions, three times, here’s the move …” she explained.Kim defended her family’s product endorsements. Teeth whitening? “I don’t have veneers. People really think that!” Waist trainers? “I got them for my friends after they had babies!” Kendall’s Proactiv deal, widely mocked after Kris teased it on Twitter as a “brave and vulnerable” move? “She never thought she’d ever be able to be a model because of her acne,” Kim said. Kim also said she turns down more offers than she accepts. When a fast fashion line offered her $1 million for a single Instagram post, Kanye urged her not to do it, saying, “These companies knock off my stuff.” So Kim turned it down. As a thank you, on Mother’s Day, Kanye gave her $1 million himself. “He wrote me a check for that amount and said ‘Thank you so much for always being supportive and not posting,’” she said.She was also unapologetic about maximizing her family’s income. “If there is work that is really easy that doesn’t take away from our kids, that’s like a huge priority, if someone was faced with the same job opportunities, I think they would maybe consider,” she said. “You’re going to get backlash for almost everything so as long as you like it or believe in it or it’s worth it financially, whatever your decision may be, as long as you’re O.K. with that.”Would a man have to apologize for making easy money? But Jamil has called them “double agents for the patriarchy” who are “selling us self consciousness.” And all of the women have been accused of selling deceptive products (including a short-lived credit card, which was criticized for high fees and promptly pulled off the market) and of exploitation. Kylie and Kendall recently had to apologize and pull $125 T-shirts featuring the hip-hop artist Tupac Shakur, and Kim defended herself against “some people online saying I was doing blackface” in a promotional post for her makeup. She also fixed the photo. Pepsi scrapped its ad that starred Kendall and borrowed imagery of the Black Lives Matter movement. Not long after that, Kendall was scrutinized for her involvement in promoting the ill-fated Fyre Festival. “Girl, you better show up and hand a pepsi to everyone scammed by the fyre fest quick,” read one tweet.On a break from a photo shoot in New York, Kendall addressed the controversy for the first time. She said she wasn’t a part of the music event and didn’t know much about it when she was reportedly paid $250,000 for a promotional post. But she said she had learned from the experience. “You get reached out to by people to, whether it be to promote or help or whatever, and you never know how these things are going to turn out, sometimes it’s a risk,” she said. “I definitely do as much research as I can, but sometimes there isn’t much research you can do because it’s a starting brand and you kind of have to have faith in it and hope it will work out the way people say it will.” Even when she trusts her collaborators, “you never really know what’s going to happen.”And yet, despite such missteps, you have to admire that Kris and Kim leveraged a sex tape that could’ve been a scarlet letter into entertainment gold and a platform so powerful that Kim has visited the White House and made an impact on criminal justice reform, including convincing President Trump to commute the sentence of Alice Marie Johnson, a 63-year-old sentenced to life for a nonviolent drug offense. I asked Kim if she’d consider running for office.“No, I don’t think so,” she said. “It would be probably the most stressful job in the world, and I don’t think that’s for me.”Ask enough people how they feel about the Kardashians, and you start to realize that their answers aren’t really about the Kardashians, but about what their lifestyle (or at least the lifestyle they’ve curated on Instagram) says about selfie culture and our own changing aspirations. If previous generations compared themselves to their neighbors, lusting after the slightly nicer house, the sports car, the renovated kitchen, with the advent of social media, “we started to spend more time with people we see on TV and social media than our actual neighbors,” said Lauren Greenfield, a photographer whose documentary “Generation Wealth” chronicles the rise of consumer culture. (She first photographed Kim when she was 12.)In other words, keeping up with the Joneses has become keeping up with the Kardashians.All of the women told me “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” remains the centerpiece of the empire. But the show’s ratings have sagged and its formula has changed: What used to be a glimpse into a bickering, loving family has become vérité footage of the world’s biggest celebrities, more “Entourage” than “Brady Bunch.” Kim being robbed of roughly $9 million worth of jewelry at gunpoint in Paris in 2016 made international headlines, but only the TV series showed us emotional footage of a traumatized Kim telling her sisters about the attack.The sisters’ schedules are so hectic that it is now the filming that brings them together. Fans would “think, ‘Oh they desperately want to be famous and we’ve watched their rise’ and now it’s taken the complete opposite effect of ‘We really want to tune in to see the normalcy,’” Kim said. “It’s the complete flip of how it started.” (Many TV show spinoffs the family tried have come and gone.)The new season of “KUWTK,” as “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” is so often abbreviated, will prominently feature Kanye, who will be regularly (and novelly) interviewed for into-the-camera confessionals. He and Kim married in 2014 and ever since he has exerted his vision on the show and the family’s related businesses. He’s not just another character coming and going like many of the other men, but a major force behind all of it. If Kris is the founder and chief executive of Kardashian Inc., Kanye has become the creative director. He frequently texts with the producers, offering input on the opening images which initially had a 1970s sitcom feel and now feature the women in nude tones and sleek, silvery poses. And he shared his thoughts on the backdrop of the confessionals, which now bathe the women in amber light. “He’s a real creative force, clearly, and had thoughts on marketing, thoughts on presentation of the show, on the opening title sequence,” said Adam Stotsky, the president of E!I told Kim that Kanye’s involvement reminded me of an episode of the show from when they were first dating. In it, she cries as he throws out her clothes during a closet makeover with his stylist. “So, it’s basically like that but for business,” Kim said. “He’ll have a room full of a dozen people or sometimes three of us and we go over packaging and colors and the photo shoot.”The day I talked to Kris, Kanye had just come over. (They live across the street from each other in the same gated community in Calabasas, Calif.) He pointed to a new piece of furniture. “He said, ‘I really think that little entry table would look better over there. So what did I do? I moved the entry table,” Kris said.“Keeping Up With the Kardashians” could’ve been a gigantic hit and still faded like “The Osbournes,” another reality show that put celebrity family dynamics on display. Even “The Apprentice,” which attracted 20 million viewers in its first season, had fizzled by the time Trump ran for president, 14 seasons later. “There is no one who can sit here and say they saw or expected this,” Seacrest said.But Kris insisted that by the second season, she could tell that the show — and her family — had staying power. “I knew we had something, and Kim and I really sat down and made a list of our goals,” she said. Asked if the sisters had lived up to their mother’s expectations, Kim didn’t hesitate. “Everything she wanted happened,” she said.Amy Chozick is a New York-based writer at large for The Times.   @amychozick • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byRuPaul’s Drag RaceBy Amanda DuarteMy fellow Ru-mericans, it has been one week since we went to war, and I regret to inform you that, in followance of our made-great governing principles, RuPaul has assigned our new Ru-merican centauries the project of profiting from it. If the last 50 years have not already turned Eisenhower’s corpse to butter, surely, it spins.In the situation room, our victor-ias wrote the herstory of last week’s elimination, in which a criminally funny Monét X Change won the battle, but not the war. When she condemned her catastrophic cutout onesie to the trash, Monique lobbed one last grenade at her: “You will buy a new one. And it will be the accurate cut.” Throwing some deserved darkness at Ms. Heart’s giraffe-print horror, the trigger-witted Monét shot back, “All right, brown cow.” They stood at the gallows and laughed good-naturedly. And that’s shade.Command-her In Chief Ru marched into the workroom and addressed the state of the (non-, still) union — proclaiming that “to separate the pros from the cons,” the queens needed to concentrate on branding themselves, and “march into the club merch first.”He led by example and announced the branded mini-challenge, “Sitting on a Secret,” in which the blindfolded queens were directed to sit on various objects and, via booty Braille, read what they were.The girls gingerly placed their vouchers on such rations as marshmallows, a pork chop and a dead fish. The all-that Miz Cracker correctly guessed that she was sitting on a bag of chips (snacks recognize snacks), and the self-described “big booty Judy” Monét so engulfed an eggplant, she thought it was an avocado. But Asia O’Hara’s iron triangle barreled the most pork, including a cake and, endearingly, a fax machine, and she won the battle.Ru then dragged our girls from the workroom to the boardroom with the week’s maxi-challenge: a mock-up of RuPaul’s Drag Con. (“For a queen, it’s a chance to entertain and inspire … and make a few coins on the side.”) They were ordered to assemble panels, perform demos and discuss the building blocks of drag — body, face and wigs — in front of every artist’s worst nightmare: a live audience with an invitation to ask questions.Previous teammates Cracker, The Vixen and Blair ru-peated themselves and became Team Wigs; Asia, Monique and Aquaria snapped each other up for Team Face; and the ascending Miss Congeniality candidate Eureka took pity on the ostracized, “tainted” Monét and the silent-but-deadly Kameron Michaels, and warmly embraced them to form a delightfully diverse Team Body.Asia smugly speculated that, in a public speaking challenge, a body composed of the chatty Eureka, the quiet storm Kameron and the struggling Monét might not work. “All of them have issues that they’re battling, so we’ll see how that goes,” she said.Listen up, young ones: Drag, as well as most forms of art, is about battling issues, and Team Body got right down to operational-level strategy. Eureka’s past experience at Drag Con led her to wisely appoint herself as panel moderator, and when she accidentally neologized “proportionizing,” the team’s recent experience of assessing what was under their posteriors led them to wisely assent that they were sitting on a pot of gold. Merch first!Team Wigs took a controlled-chaos approach, opting not to elect a moderator, with Cracker unwisely cracking that Drag Con is “really just an excuse for queens to hang out.” Drag Con President, CEO and Rear Admiral Ru looked as if he had been stabbed in the forehead with a knife. He gently pulled it out and sagely intoned, “Over the years, I have branded every damn thing I can, and that’s what you should be doing, too.” Ladies, read your contracts and check your flanks!Monique and Asia expressed concerns that their teammate, the walking selfie Aquaria, would be too lo-fi to rise to the challenge of extemporaneous speaking. The ever-vescent (neologism is contagious) Monique went on to lament her underfunded wardrobe, which necessitated her to “jimmy-rig” (I love her so much) a “dress-gown” (I love her so much) from a raw slab of iridescent paillettes brought from home. She aptly described herself as “the MacGyver of drag,” saying, “I came to this competition with glitter and Jesus, and bitch, I am making it work, okaaaay?” Okaaaay!Dressed in a merch bag from the Paisley Park gift shop, Ru introduced the queens to the live “Drag Con” audience that ringed the runway.Team Body lifted their competitors’ embargo, fired “Proportionizing!” into the crowd, and sold the heaven out of it. The three infotainingly demonstrated padding techniques on the incomprehensibly hot Opie-lescent Pit Crew member Brian, behind a shoji screen embellished with what I can only hope are scale, full-color representations of his cunning ham.The exact type of man who usually has “more of a comment than a question” at a panel discussion took the mic with, surprisingly, a question! “In today’s political climate (an abrupt change of topic at which Eureka squalled, “Oh!”, and I choked on a Popchip), why is drag so important?”Without skipping a beat, Eureka switched gears to the body politic and warmly answered, “We’re all afraid. We do drag to celebrate ourselves, our femininity … people celebrate drag with us because it’s a way for them to escape and to feel like they belong, in a political climate where none of us feel like we belong, truly.” Ladies, gentlemen, and everyone in between and beyond: This is what a drag superstar looks and sounds like. I’m starting to have vivid visuals of a crown on her head.Team Face made a fun showing, with the moderator Monique (“the Heart of Season 10!”) and even the typically Mayfair-muted Aquaria leaning in with some choice quotes and dishing out useful tips, like blow-drying false eyelashes into place and using glue to anchor a “red glitter lip,” which, for some reason, was pink.It actually causes me physical pain to write about Team Wigs. Blair’s contrived charisma hung in the air like a child star’s burp. Cracker’s playful pitches of shade splatted onto the unoccupied home plate like globs of cigarette-butt-flavored Jell-O. And The Vixen, who up until this moment in the episode seemed refreshingly chastened, responded to the other queens’ jovial jests with not only a complete lack of humor, but, and I can’t believe I’m typing this, actual threats of physical violence. (Perhaps she should ask the Season 2 winner Tyra Sanchez how threatening violence at Drag Con works out.) The judges all looked like they were sitting on dead fish, which, in a sense, they were. The crucial fourth building block of drag is the art of shade. If one cannot create in that medium, one has not earned the title of “drag queen,” and should go back to school until they learn how to properly read.Couture chapeaus were celebrated in the runway challenge, titled “Hat’s Incredible” — a tip to a television show that ended two years before Blair was born. Monét redeemed herself with an impressive “Uber-Executive-to-church” look that tithed her team into the top three, with Eureka named the overall winner for the second week in a row. Blair, in yet another “old Broadway musicals” inspired look, and The Vixen, in the sweepings from Philip Treacy’s studio floor, were sent to the back of the parade.Blair tearfully confessed that her endless dessert menu of drag was in response to a college rape, and choked, “I urge to find daintiness, because I feel dirty.” Drag Oprah Ru empathetically responded that “we’ve all had trauma …, and the first response to that is to … put rainbows on everything. But we know that doesn’t work, and you have to walk through that.”Blair, you are dainty as heaven, and we are so grateful for your brave confession. But Ru is right: The integration of your trauma into your art is a process for which you are, I’m so sorry to say, due. You have acres of potential, but in this, the springtime of your discontent, you are still a bit green. We love you, Blair. (Me, too.)Blair and The Vixen were consigned to battle to that rugged hymn of the Ru-public, “I’m Coming Out” by Diana Ross. Both performances were amateurish in polar opposite ways — The Vixen tumbled, jumped and thrashed sans POV, whilst Blair earnestly auditioned for the role of Eponine in a state-college production of “Les Miz.” Sadly, despite a heart full of love, Blair took the bullet, and was sent off on her own. (I can’t wait to see her at her Fantine in Season 6 of All Stars.)Panel Man’s question was actually quite prescient — why is drag so important in the current political climate? We are at a fascinating moment where the rebel forces are becoming war profiteers. And, unlike the other wars our generations have endured, this one will have an actual winner. That winner must ask not what her charisma, uniqueness, nerve and talent can do for her, but what she can do for her charisma, uniqueness, nerve and talent. Do we want to elect a community organizer, or a businesswoman? An experienced veteran, or an unpredictable outsider? Who will wield their power most Ru-sponsibly?This episode, as promised, helped separate the pros from the cons, the glitter from the Jesus, and, hopefully, the merch from the madness.See you next week.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe wave toward legalization ignores the serious health risks of marijuana.By Alex BerensonMr. Berenson is the author of a forthcoming book on marijuana use. Marijuana seems to be on an unstoppable march to legalization in the United States.New York and New Jersey are racing to join the 10 states that already allow recreational use of cannabis. Some 65 percent of Americans favor legalization, and several potential Democratic candidates for president support ending federal prohibitions on marijuana.This huge shift in public attitudes comes even though most Americans do not use the drug. Only 15 percent of people over 12 used it even once in 2017, according to a large federal survey. That year, only three million people tried it for the first time.Instead, the change has been largely driven by decadeslong lobbying by marijuana legalization advocates and for-profit cannabis companies.Those groups have shrewdly recast marijuana as a medicine rather than an intoxicant. Some have even claimed that marijuana can help slow the opioid epidemic, though studies show that people who use cannabis are more likely to start using opioids later.Meanwhile, legalization advocates have squelched discussion of the serious mental health risks of marijuana and THC, the chemical responsible for the drug’s psychoactive effects. As I have seen firsthand in writing a book about cannabis, anyone who raises those concerns may be mocked as a modern-day believer in “Reefer Madness,” the notorious 1936 movie that portrays young people descending into insanity and violence after smoking marijuana.A strange disconnect has resulted.With large studies in peer-reviewed journals showing that marijuana increases the risk of psychosis and schizophrenia, the scientific literature around the drug is far more negative than it was 20 years ago. Comparing two major reports from the National Academy of Medicine, the nonprofit group that advises the federal government on health and medicine, makes the difference clear.In a report in 1999, the academy (then called the Institute of Medicine) reported that “the association between marijuana and schizophrenia is not well understood.” It even suggested the drug might help some people with schizophrenia. But in its next major report on marijuana, released in 2017, the academy reached a very different conclusion: “Cannabis use is likely to increase the risk of schizophrenia and other psychoses; the higher the use, the greater the risk.” Yet the change in the scientific consensus has gone unnoticed. Americans in general are far more likely to believe the drug is safe, and even medically beneficial, than they once were. As a result, support for legalization has doubled since 1999.Making matters worse, the ways Americans use cannabis are changing in ways that further increase its risks.Many older Americans remember marijuana as a relatively weak drug that they used casually in social settings like concerts. They’re not wrong. In the 1970s and 1980s, marijuana generally contained less than 5 percent THC. Today, the marijuana sold at legal dispensaries often contains 25 percent THC. Many people use extracts that are nearly pure THC. As a comparison, think of the difference between a beer and a martini.And though legalization hasn’t led to a big increase in Americans trying the drug, it has meant that those people who already use it do so far more frequently. In 2005, about three million Americans used cannabis every day. Today, the figure is eight million. Put another way, about one cannabis user in five uses it daily. By contrast, only one in every 15 drinkers, about 12 million Americans, consumes alcohol every day.Scientists must do much more research to understand how cannabis can cause psychosis, and the strength of the link. But hospitals are already seeing the effect of these new use patterns. According to the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, in 2006, emergency rooms saw 30,000 cases of people who had diagnoses of psychosis and marijuana-use disorder — the medical term for abuse or dependence on the drug. By 2014, that number had tripled to 90,000.Federal surveys also show that rates of serious mental illness are rising nationally, with the sharpest increase among people 18 to 25, who are also the most likely to use cannabis. The surveys and hospital data cannot prove that marijuana has caused a population-wide increase in psychosis, but they do offer intriguing evidence.I am not a prohibitionist. I don’t believe we should jail people for possessing marijuana. But the advocacy community has sharply overstated the level of marijuana-related incarceration. Many people are arrested for marijuana possession, but very few end up imprisoned. California reported in 2013, the most recent year for which this data is available, that only 441 of its 134,000 prisoners were incarcerated for all marijuana-related crimes. If arrests for marijuana possession are a major racial justice concern, the solution is decriminalizing possession, turning it into a violation equivalent to littering.But advocacy groups don’t view decriminalization as an acceptable compromise. They want full legalization, making marijuana a state-regulated and -taxed drug that businesses  can sell and profit from.States that allow recreational marijuana have found that legalization doesn’t end the black market in unregulated cannabis. But it does lower prices, increase availability and acceptability, and drive up use.Worse — because marijuana can cause paranoia and psychosis, and those conditions are closely linked to violence — it appears to lead to an increase in violent crime. Before recreational legalization began in 2014, advocates promised that it would reduce violent crime. But the first four states to legalize — Alaska, Colorado, Oregon and Washington — have seen sharp increases in murders and aggravated assaults since 2014, according to reports from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Police reports and news articles show a clear link to cannabis in many cases.As Americans consider making marijuana a legal drug, it would be wise to remember the choices that fueled the devastating opioid epidemic. Decades ago, many of the same people pressing for marijuana legalization argued that the risks of opioid addiction could be easily managed.A half-million deaths later, we have learned how wrong they were.Marijuana’s risks are different from opioids’, but they are no less real. Let’s remember that hard truth as we listen to promises that allowing the use of this drug will do no harm.Alex Berenson, a former New York Times reporter, is the author of the forthcoming “Tell Your Children: The Truth About Marijuana, Mental Illness, and Violence.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySportingBy Gary BelskyI’ve come to think that Venmo, PayPal and the like might very well go out of business were it not for the annual three-week gambling festival known as the N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball tournament (estimated wagers this year: more than $10 billion).But maybe that’s just me, what with the many bracket pools I’m invited to join every spring and the associated entry fees I’m asked to payment-app-as-verb to various gambling enablers — I mean pool organizers — around the country.My particular challenges aside, this year’s iteration of March Madness and the Final Four is yet another reminder of America’s long-simmering and complex relationship with sports betting.The United States Supreme Court, in a case to be decided in the next few months, is expected to rule in favor of the State of New Jersey and overturn a ban on non-internet sports betting in all but four states (Delaware, Montana, Nevada and Oregon). According to a recent report from Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, at least 18 state legislatures are preparing bills to legalize and regulate sports gambling.That none of these developments has rallied much outcry or opposition reflects both an evolution and devolution of attitudes toward the subject.In 1992, a federal law banned sports betting in most of the country. A Gallup/CNN/USA Today poll showed that a majority of Americans disapproved of legalization. This reflected long-held concerns, not only in regard to the activity itself but also to the dangers it posed to the integrity of our games. High-profile gambling scandals — ranging from the 1919 Black Sox fixing of the World Series to revelations that the baseball legend Pete Rose bet on games in which he participated — confirmed for many people that sports and betting were not a good match.By 2014, however, polls began to show that a majority of Americans had begun to rethink their skepticism. What changed in the intervening years? A lot, including the introduction of the internet — which for a period made online gambling (especially poker) easily accessible without bringing down the Republic.Some credit must also go to Super Bowl Squares sheets and March Madness pools, the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling (with dealers across the country).Credit, too, the escalation of athletes’ salaries, which makes the reward of taking bribes to throw games rarely worth the risk of getting caught. (It’s no coincidence that tennis and lower-tier soccer — whose competitors often earn little enough to be vulnerable — continue to struggle most with match fixing.)But there’s a strong case to be made that no factor has contributed more to the normalizing of sports gambling — in America, at least — than the four-decade rise of fantasy sports. Fantasy, in its broadest and most benign form, has been a godsend for major sports leagues, providing a (mostly) harmless way to keep fans engaged in a world of growing entertainment options.Whatever the catalyst, Americans are now betting more than $150 billion annually on professional and college contests. (All but $250 million of it is illegal, which is why definitive figures are hard to come by.) By comparison, the non-betting sports industry — ticket sales, media rights, advertising revenue — is expected to reach around $74 billion next year.Gambling does not represent any kind of new threat to American sports. On the contrary, it’s a homecoming of sorts to sports’ roots.There’s no record of it, but it’s almost a certainty that as soon as the first pair of crook-wielding Scottish shepherds decided to see who could knock dried sheep dung closest to a rabbit hole — golf! — so, too, did a couple of nearby highland lads agree to wager on the outcome. Ancient Olympics, scholars believe, had betting scandals, involving bribetaking athletes throwing a wrestling match or foot race.More relevant and recent is the close connection between betting and two of the world’s oldest and most popular organized sports, cricket and baseball — both, it should be noted, invented in England.Until the mid-17th century, cricket was played almost exclusively by children, what with working people (who included teenagers back then) having little leisure time for much besides eating, sleeping and creating more little cricketers. But the twin engines of the English Civil War (1642-51) and the Industrial Revolution (about 1760-1840) gave working-class Britons their first taste of individual liberty and free time — the men, at least. That brought grown-ups to the cricket pitch. And they, in turn, brought the gamblers.Betting was so integral to cricket’s modern provenance that the first rules books were concerned almost entirely with the adjudication of betting disagreements. Likewise, the earliest newspaper accounts of cricket matches focused a little on runs tallied and a lot on amounts wagered. Landed gentry and other moneyed types were especially fond of the new hobby.Baseball, one of the earliest known references to which (“base-ball”) shows up in a 1744 English publication, “A Little Pretty Pocket Book,” also began as child’s play but flowered as an adult activity. But America’s “national pastime,” which started evolving almost as soon as play began in North America, retained at least one strand of British sporting DNA: Yanks loved to gamble on it — and not just on the outcome of games.In a foreshadowing of today’s “proposition bets” — wagers made on specific moments, events or statistics within a larger game context — baseball fans in the mid- 19th century often bet on the outcome of a single at-bat and even a specific pitch. “It was rampant,” said John Thorn, official historian for Major League Baseball and author of “Baseball in the Garden of Eden.” “Baseball could not have risen as a vehicle for adult attention were it not for gambling.” The game’s first betting scandal: 1865.So fast were bets laid and so furiously did money change hands that serious gamblers congregated near the field, in sections referred to as “pool boxes.” Their coarse banter and unseemly behavior — imagine a stock trading pit, but with chewing tobacco and whiskey — forced many of the game’s organizers, who were interested in drawing families and other wholesome spectators, to shut down the pool boxes.This did nothing to curtail betting because the pool boxes simply reset nearby, in saloons and billiards halls, using runners to bring news back from the diamond.In fact, so closely did betting pools and pool boxes become associated with billiards that when sports-bar patrons took a break from this March’s madness, some doubtless turned away from the bank of TVs, picked up a cue stick and challenged someone to a game Americans long ago stopped referring to as billiards and started, for obvious reasons, calling pool.As for this spring’s pools, expect a frenzy of digital transactions once the 2018 tourney champ is crowned and winnings are distributed. Just don’t expect any money to wind up in my Venmo account. My brackets were busted quicker than you can say Sister Jean.Gary Belsky, the former editor in chief of ESPN The Magazine, is a co-author of “On the Origins Of Sports: The Early History and Original Rules of Everybody’s Favorite Games.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the long-awaited results of the special counsel’s investigation into Russian election interference, the end of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate in Syria, and an abbreviated visit to Washington by Israel’s leader.The special counsel, Robert Mueller, found no evidence that the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to influence the 2016 presidential election, according to a summary of the key findings of his nearly two-year investigation that was made public on Sunday by Attorney General William Barr.The special counsel, Mr. Barr said, stated that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” of illegally obstructing justice. Nevertheless, Mr. Barr and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, announced that there was insufficient evidence that President Trump had committed that crime.Read: Here’s the four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s findings. Democrats have called for the release of the full report.News analysis: The end of the investigation has lifted a cloud over Mr. Trump’s presidency and fortified him for the battles to come, our chief White House correspondent writes.The Daily: On today’s episode, two of our reporters discuss the findings.Calling the special counsel’s investigation an “illegal takedown that failed,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday: “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.”The White House does not yet have the full report, a spokesman said, and it was not clear when, or even if, the president would get complete access.What’s next? Federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other investigations that grew out of Robert Mueller’s work. The end of his investigation also offers clarity to the Democrats who hope to beat Mr. Trump in next year’s election. Perspective: In an Op-Ed, the lawyer who drafted the regulations under which Mr. Mueller was appointed says that the attorney general’s unilateral conclusion that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice makes it imperative that the public see the full report.Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is supporting two new measures as part of an effort to tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language, an issue that has divided Democrats in the House.The measures will be promoted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Related: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is cutting short a visit to the U.S. after a rocket attack from Gaza injured seven people near Tel Aviv today. He said he would return to Israel after meeting with President Trump.A century after women were first allowed to serve, they make up 8 percent of the Marines, the lowest percentage of any U.S. military branch.An award-winning war photographer for The Times followed a handful of female recruits as they went through basic training at Parris Island, S.C.Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a woman who spent 20 years in the Marines says that the corps still has lower expectations for female recruits.Half of humanity lives in cities, the main generators of planet-warming gases. That means the big fixes for climate change need to come from cities, too. Copenhagen is home to 624,000 people and aims to be carbon neutral — generating more renewable energy than the dirty energy it consumes — by 2025. The Danish city’s experience shows what’s possible, and what’s difficult.ISIS “caliphate” crumbles: A four-year battle to free territory in Iraq and Syria ended over the weekend, as American-backed forces seized the last village held by the militants.A fix for Boeing: Pilots have met with company executives to discuss proposed changes to the 737 Max, two of which have crashed in recent months.Anti-Brexit march: Hundreds of thousands crowded London streets on Saturday to demand a second referendum over Britain’s departure from the European Union. Parliament has twice rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan but is set to consider it for a third time this week.Parkland grieves again: A survivor of last year’s mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., has been found dead in an apparent suicide, the second such death in a week.Cruise ship rescue: A Viking cruise ship that set out with more than 1,300 people limped into port in Norway on Sunday after experiencing engine trouble in rough weather. Earlier, some passengers were airlifted, one by one, from the ship’s deck. Voting in Thailand: A pro-military party was on track today to capture an unexpectedly large number of seats in the weekend’s elections, probably allowing the army, which staged a 2014 coup, a license to continue its hold on power.Snapshot: Above, an imam recited the adhan, or call for prayer, on Sunday at the Linwood Mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand. The mosque, one of two where 50 people were killed this month, reopened this weekend.Apple’s next act: The tech giant is set to unveil today a news and entertainment bundle that is expected to offer access to magazines, newspapers, music and, perhaps most intriguingly, original shows and films. Netflix is one of the big players that won’t be a part of it.N.C.A.A. basketball: It’s not a year for Cinderellas. In the men’s tournament, the round of 16 will include 14 of the top seeds, which hasn’t happened since 2009. The favorites have also dominated in the women’s tournament, the second round of which concludes today. What we’re reading: This Gizmodo piece about an adventure on one of the motorized e-scooters in San Francisco. Mike Isaac, one of our Silicon Valley reporters, says he loves how the author, Joe Veix, describes “scooting his way out of crumbling modernity, over the Golden Gate Bridge and up through the Marin Headlands — to happiness, and the promise of a better life.” Cook: Toss roasted broccoli with a Thai-style vinaigrette. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: Jordan Peele breaks down the haunting scene in “Us” where members of a family meet their terrifying doubles.Listen: A year ago, Blueface was a little-known Los Angeles rapper. Now he has a viral single. On Popcast, our pop music podcast, our critic Jon Caramanica leads a discussion about how it happened.Go: Ivo van Hove’s staging of Leos Janacek’s song cycle “Diary of One Who Disappeared” has poetic, surprising images. It’s coming to the Brooklyn Academy of Music.Smarter Living: When you’re starting your career, the best opportunities for growth aren’t always at the most influential places. But aiming to be a bigger fish in a smaller pond may not give you enough room for development. Try finding an outfit that’s on the way up, where you can accumulate skills and social capital and expand along with it.Also, your knees are the most taxed joint of the human body. Here are some ways to keep them healthy.Last week, Emma Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter for The Times, wrote about the strange disparity in New York’s subway lines, exploring why lettered lines — notably the F — performed particularly badly. We noticed that the subway system skips a few letters of the alphabet, and asked her to explain.The letters missing from the current subway map either were removed over the years or never existed because officials thought they might confuse riders. An I train could have been mistaken for a 1, or an O train for zero.There once was an H train — a shuttle line in Rockaway Park, Queens — but in 1992, it was changed to an S for shuttle.The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988.Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it’s gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side.As for the Z, transit advocates held a funeral for the line amid budget cuts in 2009, but it has survived (for now).The Times recently asked members of Generation Z, the group that was born in the years around 2000, to describe their identity. Here’s what they had to say.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the results of the special counsel’s investigation.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Month for “Madness” (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • From 1905 to 1913, The Times’s headquarters were in a tower at 42nd Street and Broadway in Manhattan, an intersection the city named “Times Square” to lend a distinctive name to the new subway station in the building’s basement. An earlier version of this briefing misstated the name of part of the San Francisco area. It is the Marin Headlands, not Highlands.Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Thursday — and it is World Poetry Day! Enjoy these recommendations from David Orr, who writes the On Poetry column for the Book Review.Weather: Grab the umbrella. Expect rain early in the day, throughout the afternoon and into the evening.Alternate-side parking: Suspended today for Purim.Visiting the American Museum of Natural History often feels like a New York rite of passage, whether you’re a student on a field trip, a tourist escaping the rain or a 20-something taking a hiatus from the Bushwick scene.For decades, the museum has educated and entertained. But now it is acknowledging that some of its exhibits have also offended.One of the solutions: labels.What is happening at the museum?As my colleague Ana Fota wrote, a diorama there depicts an imagined 17th-century meeting between Dutch settlers and the Lenape, a Native American tribe inhabiting New Amsterdam (now New York City).Critics said the diorama depicted cultural hierarchy, not a cultural exchange. The women did not wear impractical skirts that dragged behind them. Canoes would have been in the water next to the European ships.To address that, the museum added 10 labels, identifying problems with the diorama and correcting the record.What prompted the change?The labels were quietly added in October, after three years of protests from Decolonize This Place, a group urging institutions to acknowledge how marginalized people were represented. The museum consulted with outside experts but not the protest group.Amin Husain, a visual artist and member of Decolonize This Place, said the labels work on this diorama “because it honors the fact that that was there to begin with, so it references the harm that has been perpetuated over the years. And then it says, ‘We’re going to tell you how that was wrong.’”The group has said that more needs to be done. It has asked the museum to re-evaluate other exhibits and to move a statue of Theodore Roosevelt outside the building.“That has a Native figure and an African figure subjugated to a Roosevelt president, on a horse,” Mr. Husain said. “Put it in the museum itself, and then label it.”Natasha Singh, 34, another visual artist and member of Decolonize This Place, said she wanted to see “complete systematic changes of the museum.”What else in town should be changed?A lot, Ms. Singh and Mr. Husain said. They are not alone.When city officials discovered that there were only five statues depicting real women in public spaces, they rushed to plan at least five more.Last year, focus turned to a statue of a 19th-century surgeon who conducted experimental operations on female slaves. It was moved from Central Park to Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, where the surgeon was buried.No other dioramas at the American Museum of Natural History are immediately slated to get new labels, but a review is underway of its Northwest Coast Hall, according to a museum spokesman.Ana Fota contributed reporting.The Times’s Graham Starr reports:A Times report on museums delves into exhibits you won’t want to miss, as well as spaces that might fly under the radar. Here are three highlights:• A terra cotta trumpet shaped like a jaguar. Keyboard instruments small enough to fit in carry-on luggage. You can find them in “Mapping the Art of Music” at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.• During the American Revolution, a house on Long Island was a nexus of activity. Today it’s a museum of wartime espionage.• At the Museum of Natural History’s blockbuster exhibit on the T. rex, fiberglass, resin, feathers and glue help bring the dinosaur to life.The subway’s “cursed” lettered lines  are indeed worse than the numbered ones.Could New York City get real casinos? State leaders are listening.Speed cameras will surround every city public school. The Legislature voted to expand the number of protected zones.Nine fund-raisers in one night: Democratic legislators vow reform, but money still flows.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Lawyers say immigration hearings in New York are being rescheduled without notice. [Documented]Homeless families are staying in shelters for longer periods, compared to just a few years ago. [Gothamist]Only 55 percent of New York City voters said they felt as if they could afford to live here, according to a recent poll. [Quinnipiac University]Self-driving vans are coming to the Brooklyn Navy Yard. [amNew York]One of the nation’s first four-year college programs in canine training and management is being offered upstate. [Wall Street Journal]The Flushing Town Hall in Queens celebrates Women’s History Month with “Lady Got Chops,” a music and arts festival. 7:30 p.m. [$16]Compete in the March Madness Ping-Pong Series at City Point in Brooklyn. 6 p.m. [Free]The author Sohaila Abdulali and the filmmaker Vaishali Sinha discuss rape culture in “Ask a Feminist,” at the Open Society Foundations in Manhattan. 6 p.m. [Free]— Derek NormanEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.The writer Shirley Jackson, whose book “The Haunting of Hill House” was adapted for a Netflix series, used to live on Grove Street.Aaron Burr’s daughter, Theodosia, whose remains were never found after a shipwreck, once lived on Barrow Street.The actress-turned-psychic Jan Bryant Bartell often said there were ghosts in the house she occupied on West 10th Street.And this week, the writer and entrepreneur Andrea Janes was in her basement when a strange noise erupted. “Pardon me, I am doing laundry at the moment and if that noise is scaring you, it’s just the machines,” she said.Years ago, Ms. Janes founded a company that gave walking tours of historical New York, focused on the macabre. Now she is giving a tour with a feminist focus.“It began to occur to me that there are a lot of women’s history threads running through specifically my Greenwich Village ghost tour,” she said in an interview.She called it a feminist ghost tour.New York City has no shortage of women’s history to ponder.Gertrude Treadwell, who died in 1933, is said to haunt her old house on East Fourth Street and “is very tied to her identity as a spinster and as a homeowner,” Ms. Janes said.There’s Rose Butler, whose execution in Washington Square is a popular story on many ghost tours. (This July is the 200th anniversary of her killing, according to one historical society.)“Was she innocent, as people report? We don’t know,” Ms. Janes said. “And what does it mean that she is used as a kind of figure on ghost tours to deliver scares to tourists?”Near the park is the site of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire of 1911, which killed 146 workers, many of whom were young immigrant women. “Women continue to do so much labor and are so underrepresented and underpaid,” Ms. Janes said.People may be “surprised by the juxtaposition of feminism and ghosts,” she said. But it all fits. “Traditionally, what’s more terrifying than a woman, this incomprehensible maelstrom of emotion and strange physical powers?”More information about Ms. Janes’s “Ghostly Women of Greenwich Village” tour, which will take place on Saturday, is available on her website.It’s Thursday — tour your neighborhood.Dear Diary:I was supposed to meet a friend to pick up a dress she was altering for me. We were going to rendezvous in the middle of the No. 1 subway at West 79th Street. She was coming downtown from Washington Heights on her way to work.When the train pulled into the station, I looked up and down the platform to find her, but I didn’t see her.The train operator poked his head out the window. His smile was as bright as the sun.“Who are you looking for?” he said.“Jackie,” I said.He got on the public address system.“Will Jackie please step out of the door of your car so your friend can find you?” he said.Jackie stepped out. I saw her, and we hopped back on the train together.The train operator made another announcement: “Jackie and her friend found each other. That’s good.”People on the train were laughing and smiling. Jackie gave me the dress, and I got off at the next station.I ran up to the train operator to thank him.“You see that musician over there?” he said, pointing to a guy on the platform playing a keyboard. He handed me a $5 bill. “Give him this.”The train began to leave the station.“How’re you doing, my man?” the train operator yelled as he pulled away.— Claudia GoddardNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySunday RoutineBy Hilary HowardMarch Madness is coming. To prepare, Val Ackerman, the commissioner of the Big East Conference, has been traveling to college basketball games nonstop. She takes Amtrak to three schools: Villanova, Georgetown and Providence. And while she flies often to the Midwest, she can catch a break with the local universities, Seton Hall and St. John’s. Soon all of Ms. Ackerman’s teams, however, will visit her turf for the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden, March 7 to 10. March 11 is Selection Sunday, when the 68 teams competing in the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament will be announced. “I think we will have schools making deep runs,” she predicted. When Ms. Ackerman, 58, is not involved in the madness, she enjoys walking around TriBeCa, where she lives with her husband, Charlie Rappaport, 67, a retired lawyer, and their cat, Sam.CUSTOMER LOYALTY I get up around 8. I may go out to breakfast and take the paper with me. My favorite place is Bubby’s. I’ll drink my first cup of coffee there. I’ll get the griddle special: two eggs and a pancake. I moved to TriBeCa in 1987 when my husband and I got married. The space was a sandwich shop. And then it was Bubby’s pie shop. Then they turned it into a restaurant. I’ve been going there in one form or another for 20 years.PIONEERS TriBeCa had very few residents at first. Charlie bought the loft we lived in so he could walk to work. We raised our children there. We lived through 9/11. It was a terrible time but it brought the neighborhood together. We have watched the resurgence of the World Trade Center district. We had friends who perished. The neighborhood was a frozen zone for several months after. We couldn’t use our car, we needed an ID to get in and out. I think about 9/11 every single day. I’ll walk downtown, to ground zero. To go inside the Oculus is just stunning.WORKOUT I’ll go to Hudson River Park. Sometimes it will be the bike. I’ll ride to the George Washington Bridge, 22 miles round trip. I’ve biked there when the cruise ships are unloading. It gets jumpy. You have to be careful in the 30s and 40s. But when you get up past the 70s it opens up. Then it really opens up past the 90s and the water treatment plant. Or I’ll go to Equinox.SHOP I’ll go to Whole Foods and probably pick up something for dinner. We like their turkey meatballs. My husband also does a shrimp that he sautées in bread crumbs, garlic and olive oil. We also go to this place Nish Nush that has amazing hummus. It’s whipped, and they put spices in it. We’ll pick up some of that to go.WANDERINGS I come home and it’s usually a walk. I know pretty much every street in SoHo. I might do some shopping there. In terms of clothes I like A.P.C., Theory, maybe Uniqlo. If I walk I’ll go as high as Union Square. I might end up on the Lower East Side. Sometimes we’ll end up having dinner at Russ & Daughters. That neighborhood has also changed dramatically. I used to shop when I first moved to New York on Orchard Street because it was all discount shopping — now it’s all high-end stores and boutiques.MAINTENANCE I will often go for a haircut on Sunday. I go to Lance Lappín, it’s on West Broadway. And occasionally we go to this Chinese massage guy on Grand Street. His name is Yang. He works out of a place called Rio Grande at the end of a dark hallway. You pay by 15-minute increments. No appointments, you just walk in. He’s a magician.SNACKS After that we might go to the Canal Street Market for dim sum or Korean barbecue. Our long-term Chinese place is called Wo Hop, on Mott St. I am also a sweet tooth. I love Billy’s Bakery. The chocolate cupcake with a chocolate top or the red velvet or Nutella cupcakes are to die for.TASKS Late in the afternoon, I’ll do some catch up; I still do bills manually. I’ll call my daughters, other family. I’ll do the wash. I’m a very compulsive cleaner. It’s therapeutic for me. I love getting rid of clutter.STORIES We have our shows. On Sunday it could be “Billions,” “Poldark,” “Victoria,” “Homeland.” Maybe some reading before I go to sleep. I was in London for a sports conference and picked up this book: “The Guest Cat,” by Takashi Hiraide. I just reread “Cold Mountain”; it’s my favorite book. It’s lyrical and magnificent writing. Sports too is a form of expression, excellence at some point, human determination. I’ll be asleep by 10.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyDonte DiVincenzo will be waiting for his name to be called Thursday night at the N.B.A. draft in Brooklyn in no small part because of his stellar performance on what had heretofore been his career’s biggest stage.Villanova defeated Michigan, 79-62, in last season’s men’s N.C.A.A. championship game on the strength of DiVincenzo’s monster game: 31 points on 15 shots, including five 3-pointers; 5 rebounds; and, for good measure, 2 blocks.“We saw that every day in practice, but he played on a team where we didn’t need him to do that a lot,” Villanova Coach Jay Wright said of DiVincenzo, a 21-year-old guard who was a redshirt sophomore last season.Wright added, “It just happened to be, the night we needed him to do it was the championship game, and everyone was watching.”Although DiVincenzo improved his stock with an outstanding performance at the draft combine last month, that doesn’t fully explain why he is generally expected to be drafted somewhere from the high teens to the mid-20s of the first round, or why it will be a surprise if he falls much lower.Some, or perhaps a lot, of the credit is owed to that championship game.In February, one mock draft echoed the conventional wisdom when it predicted that DiVincenzo would be picked 30th as the final selection of the N.B.A. draft’s first round — in 2019.Several current and former N.B.A. front-office hands acknowledged that the tournament, despite representing just a small part of any college player’s career, inevitably looms large in their decision-making.“It’s the last thing you see for most players who are drafted,” Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey said.Bobby Marks, a former front-office figure who is now an analyst with ESPN, chalked it up to “human nature.”“We get caught up in the N.C.A.A. tournament and a player goes on a deep run, and you look at that body of work, and that stands out,” he said. “Maybe an owner starts to chime in.”Several years ago, two academic economists decided to expose N.B.A. front offices’ “irrational exuberance” in giving too much weight to a prospect’s performance in the N.C.A.A. tournament when making draft decisions.But after they crunched the numbers, they found that this exuberance, while real, actually turned out to be rational. According to their research paper, published last year in the Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, players who unexpectedly rose on the draft board after above-expectations performances in the N.C.A.A. tournament tended to be better N.B.A. players.“If you compare two players who both are No. 10 draft picks and compare the performance of the player who had a bump — who moved up because of March Madness — to one who didn’t, the one who moved up tends to do better in the N.B.A., mostly in offensive statistics,” said Anne Preston, a professor of economics at Haverford College. She wrote the paper with her husband, Casey Ichniowski, who was the chairman of Columbia Business School’s Management Division and who died in 2014.“What we found in looking at how these players played once they got to the N.B.A. is, N.B.A. personnel should be putting a lot more weight on this,” Preston said.The paper used regression equations on players drafted between 1997 and 2010 to evaluate which factors influenced when they were selected. The research relied on an average of three pretournament mock drafts to determine whether a player moved up in the draft after the tournament. It necessarily did not account for players who did not compete in the N.C.A.A. tournament, whether because they came straight from high school, like LeBron James; from a European league, like Dirk Nowitzki; or from college teams that failed to qualify for the tournament, like the most recent No. 1 overall picks, Ben Simmons and Markelle Fultz.And if the paper’s conclusions seem surprising, its authors would agree. “When we first started looking at performance in the N.B.A., we were pretty blown away that it had this effect,” Preston said.An early draft of the paper cited the trajectories of Derrick Rose and Ty Lawson as two that anecdotally illustrated their findings: Both point guards, each of whom played in N.C.A.A. title games, saw their actual draft spots rise from their expected ones, and for a time enjoyed very successful N.B.A. careers. Rose won a Most Valuable Player Award before his career was hampered by injuries; Lawson’s several years as a major contributor to a playoff contender are stellar for a No. 18 pick.More recently, there’s Boston Celtics forward Jayson Tatum. As a college freshman, Tatum was crucial to Duke’s surprise run to the 2017 Atlantic Coast Conference Tournament championship. He was drafted third — though most mock drafts had his fellow wing Josh Jackson, who disappeared in Kansas’s round-of-eight loss that year, going there. As a rookie this past season, Tatum was perhaps Boston’s best player in its surprise run to the Eastern Conference finals.But the numbers suggested that N.B.A. teams’ June excitement for players who had especially good Marches and Aprils was justified.Specifically:• A player on a team that had one more win in the tournament than its seed history predicted and who scored 4 more points and had one more assist per game in the tournament than expected moved up an average of more than one whole draft slot from his position in pretournament mock drafts.• The tendency was amplified among the hottest prospects: For those listed in the pretournament mock drafts’ first rounds, one more win than expected in the N.C.A.A. tournament and small increases in points and assists translated to moving five slots up.• Overperforming on a team that underperformed in the tournament still helped players move up in the draft.• These bumps correlated with N.B.A. minutes per game, scoring and player efficiency in a way that is “positive and significant.” It also shows up in N.B.A. postseason statistics.The paper’s findings begin to make more sense in the context of the nature of college basketball’s postseason. Unlike dreary early season nonconference games, virtually all conference games, and especially N.C.A.A. tournament games, are played against standout competition. Unlike the heart of the regular season, these games have high stakes, with increased fan and media attention. Put it all together, and N.C.A.A. tournament play is the closest college basketball gets to the pros.“If a guy you liked during the regular season then played extremely well during the tournament, it helped him, mainly because it’s a pressure situation,” the former Nets general manager Billy King said. “Especially the N.C.A.A. or their conference tournament, it’s one-or-done: You lose and you go home. You see guys that can handle that.”On Wednesday, DiVincenzo said that his title-game performance would not be what made a team draft him.“They’ve seen me since the day I’ve stepped foot on campus,” he said. “They’ve watched me plenty of times. They’re not making the decision based on one game.”However, he added, “It shows a lot that I stepped up in that setting.”Marc Tracy has covered college sports for The New York Times since 2014. @marcatracyAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLike America’s president, Brexiteers resent the very idea of governing as complex and based in facts.By William DaviesMr. Davies is the author of the forthcoming “Nervous States: How Feelings Took Over the World.”LONDON — “I am increasingly admiring of Donald Trump. I have become more and more convinced that there is method in his madness.” These comments, subsequently leaked, were made last month by Boris Johnson, who was then Britain’s foreign secretary. Never one to discount praise, Mr. Trump reportedly expressed an interest in meeting his “friend” Mr. Johnson during his visit to London this week, noting that Mr. Johnson has been “very, very nice to me, very supportive.” When Mr. Johnson offered those remarks praising the American president, he was discussing the topic that shapes everything in British politics right now: Brexit. The dilemma that is pulling Prime Minister Theresa May’s government apart, and may yet topple her, is whether Britain opts for a “soft” Brexit, in which it leaves the European Union but retains many of its rules, or a “hard” Brexit, which throws caution to the wind and releases Britain to start all its trading negotiations afresh. In Mr. Johnson’s view, it seems, Mr. Trump would have no hesitation in choosing the latter. One thing the two men share is a recklessness that looks like courage in the eyes of their supporters, but which also sabotages the work of policymaking and diplomacy. Mrs. May’s most recent attempt to escape the “hard” versus “soft” dilemma involves establishing a “common rule book” shared by London and Brussels. This looks far too “soft” for the liking of fervent Euroskeptics in her party. Within 48 hours of the plan’s being revealed, Mr. Johnson had resigned. Before him, so had David Davis, another prominent Brexiteer in Mrs. May’s cabinet who had been put in charge of negotiating with the European Union. In characteristically florid terms, Mr. Johnson’s resignation letter expressed fears that “we are headed for the status of a colony.” Just to further destabilize an already fragile political situation, Mr. Trump's visit has been accompanied by an incendiary interview with The Sun. Confirming Mr. Johnson's assessment, while escalating the mutual admiration between the two men, Mr. Trump declared that Mrs. May's plan would “kill” any future trade deal between Britain and the United States, and that Mr. Johnson would “make a great Prime Minister.” On the lengthy efforts of Mrs. May's government to arrive at a compromise with Brussels, Mr. Trump scoffed that “deals that take too long are never good ones.”Like so many political metaphors, the distinction between “hard” and “soft” is misleading. Any Brexiteer wanting to perform machismo will reach for the “hard” option. But as has become increasingly plain over the past two years, and especially over recent weeks, nobody has any idea what “hard” Brexit actually means in policy terms. It is not so much hard as abstract. “Soft” Brexit might sound weak or halfhearted, but it is also the only policy proposal that might actually work. What appear on the surface to be policy disputes over Britain’s relationship with Brussels are actually fundamental conflicts regarding the very nature of political power. In this, the arguments underway inside Britain’s Conservative Party speak of a deeper rift within liberal democracies today, which shows no sign of healing. In conceptual terms, this is a conflict between those who are sympathetic to government and those striving to reassert sovereignty. When we speak of government, we refer to the various technical and bureaucratic means by which policies and plans are delivered. Government involves officials, data-gathering, regulating and evaluating. As a governmental issue, Brexit involves prosaic problems such as how to get trucks through ports. Sovereignty, on the other hand, is always an abstract notion of where power ultimately lies, albeit an abstraction that modern states depend on if they’re to command obedience. As a sovereign issue, Brexit involves bravado appeals to “the people” and “the nation.” These are two incommensurable ideas of what power consists of, although any effective state must have both at its disposal. One way to understand the rise of reactionary populism today is as the revenge of sovereignty on government. This is not simply a backlash after decades of globalization, but against the form of political power that facilitated it, which is technocratic, multilateral and increasingly divorced from local identities. A common thread linking “hard” Brexiteers to nationalists across the globe is that they resent the very idea of governing as a complex, modern, fact-based set of activities that requires technical expertise and permanent officials. Soon after entering the White House as President Trump’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon expressed hope that the newly appointed cabinet would achieve the “deconstruction of the administrative state.” In Europe, the European Commission — which has copious governmental capacity, but scant sovereignty — is an obvious target for nationalists such as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán of Hungary. The more extreme fringes of British conservatism have now reached the point that American conservatives first arrived at during the Clinton administration: They are seeking to undermine the very possibility of workable government. For hard-liners such as Jacob Rees-Mogg, it is an article of faith that Britain’s Treasury Department, the Bank of England and Downing Street itself are now conspiring to deny Britain its sovereignty. It is thought that Mr. Davis’s real grudge was with the unelected official, Olly Robbins, who had usurped him in his influence over the Brexit process. The problem was that Mr. Robbins is willing and able to do the laborious and intellectually demanding policy work that Brexit will require, while Mr. Davis is famously not. What happens if sections of the news media, the political classes and the public insist that only sovereignty matters and that the complexities of governing are a lie invented by liberal elites? For one thing, it gives rise to celebrity populists, personified by Mr. Trump, whose inability to engage patiently or intelligently with policy issues makes it possible to sustain the fantasy that governing is simple. What Mr. Johnson terms the “method” in Mr. Trump’s “madness” is a refusal to listen to inconvenient evidence, of the sort provided by officials and experts. But another byproduct of the anti-government attitude is a constant wave of exits. Britain leaves the European Union, Mr. Johnson resigns from the cabinet. The Trump White House has been defined by the constant churn of sackings and resignations. With astonishing hypocrisy, wealthy Brexiteers such as Mr. Rees-Mogg, John Redwood, Lord Lawson and Lord Ashcroft have all been discovered either preparing to move their own assets into European Union jurisdictions or advising clients on how to do so. No doubt when Britain does finally leave the European Union in March 2019, they will distance themselves from reality once more, allowing the sense of victimhood and the dream of “sovereignty” to live another day. Meanwhile, someone has to keep governing.This article has been updated to reflect news developments.William Davies (@davies_will) is a sociologist and political economist at Goldsmiths, University of London, and the author of the forthcoming “Nervous States: How Feeling Took Over the World.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — The head of Turner Broadcasting on Wednesday pushed back against one of the central arguments of the government’s case to block the AT&T and Time Warner merger, saying that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through.The Justice Department has argued that Turner, which is owned by Time Warner, owns “must-have” channels like CNN and TNT that the merged company would use as leverage in negotiations with other cable and satellite TV operators. But John Martin, the chief executive of Turner, told a federal court that his channels were not absolutely vital for a cable or satellite business.“I believe we have must-have, as do other programmers,” Mr. Martin said. “Must-have is another way of saying we have popular programming.”Much of the Justice Department’s argument in the trial, which started last week, has centered on the importance of Turner’s exclusive sports rights, which include professional and college basketball games. Mr. Martin’s testimony had been one of the most anticipated moments of the trial.The Justice Department called on Mr. Martin as an adversarial witness in large part to present emails and memos he wrote that revealed how important Turner content is to Time Warner’s business, and how critical Turner is for cable and satellite operators.In one memo presented Wednesday, from 2016, Mr. Martin emphasized the importance of renewing rights to the N.C.A.A. college basketball championships, known as March Madness.“March Madness plays a critical role” for Turner, Eric Welsh, a lawyer for the Justice Department, read from the email.It’s “not just important but has a critical role,” he said to Mr. Martin.Mr. Martin, who joined Time Warner in 1993, was one of the first witnesses called by the Justice Department. He has been vocal critic of the government’s lawsuit to block the merger, calling the Justice Department “clueless” last month.Mr. Martin’s testimony revealed how the trial has placed company executives, who normally put a bold face on their businesses for investors, in a tricky position. AT&T and Time Warner played down their influence. Their rivals have described their weaknesses in full detail.Mr. Martin tried to walk a thin line of presenting Turner’s sports and entertainment networks as important but not too important.During cross-examination by AT&T, Mr. Martin disputed the government’s idea that the merger would give AT&T the incentive to use Turner Broadcasting as a negotiating weapon to extract higher fees from cable, satellite and online streaming providers.Cable channels, he said, need to be distributed to make money — and can’t do that if rival cable operators decide that the price is too high to carry a channel.“Distribution is the most important variable for success for any programmer,” Mr. Martin said. He said revenue for cable television networks come from two sources: subscription revenue and advertising. “Distribution affects both of those,” he said. “It’s simple math.”The trial, which started last week, has attracted huge public interest, with the courtroom packed with company and government officials, investors, reporters and industry analysts. On Tuesday, executives from AT&T and Time Warner were in attendance. John Stankey, an AT&T executive poised to lead Time Warner if the merger is approved, has attended every day.Judge Richard Leon of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia will decide the case. He has not indicated an inclination toward any arguments.On Wednesday, in one of his few comments so far in the trial, he expressed astonishment at the $1 billion Turner pays each year for rights to broadcast National Basketball Association games.“You said billion?” he said, eyebrows raised.The Justice Department has called all the witnesses so far, and the early testimony by AT&T’s rivals has supported the Justice Department’s claim that the huge media merger would unfairly harm their businesses that depend on offering Turner’s channels. AT&T owns a nationwide satellite TV operator.Warren Schlichting, the president of SlingTV, a streaming video service owned by Dish Network, another national satellite TV company, took the stand on Monday and Tuesday. He said Turner’s “hard-core” negotiating tactics in the past had led to blackouts of its channels and a loss of subscribers. Mr. Schlichting warned that things would get worse with a merger.“With the merger, all the incentives change, and we have one of our most important licensers teaming up with our biggest adversary,” Mr. Schlichting said. “I just don’t know what incentive Time Warner would have to get a deal done.”The government’s witnesses have faced tough questioning from Daniel Petrocelli, the lead litigator for AT&T and Time Warner. To show SlingTV’s history of contract disputes and willingness to lose customers, Mr. Petrocelli presented a long list of occasions when Dish allowed channels to go dark after contract negotiations failed. Mr. Petrocelli also pointed a several public statements by Dish’s chairman, Charlie Ergen, that appeared to diminish the importance of Turner channels to Dish.The trial has moved slowly and is expected to last more than six weeks, with testimony from AT&T’s Randall Stephenson and Time Warner’s chief, Jeff Bewkes. Among the most important witnesses may be Carl Shapiro, an antitrust economist for the Justice Department who is not expected in coming days. Mr. Shapiro has projected that the merger would lead to a 45-cent monthly price increases for cable and satellite customers.Mr. Petrocelli has previewed a plan to attack Mr. Shapiro’s analysis, which he has said is flawed and cherry-picks data.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTeenagers in The TimesBy The Learning NetworkHere is the March edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.As we did last month, we’ve listed the entries about the activism that has emerged after the Feb. 14 attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla, as a category of their own.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________March for Our Lives, Gun Reform, School Safety and Activism at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High SchoolBeyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend ElectionsWith hundreds of March for Our Lives demonstrations planned, high school students say this is a moment of political awakening for their generation.‘We Are the Change’: Teenagers From Chicago’s South Side Stand With Parkland SurvivorsThis video features footage from the event.March for Our Lives Highlights: Students Protesting Guns Say ‘Enough Is Enough’'Hundreds of thousands of protesters, outraged by a recent school shooting, took to the streets in Washington and around the world, calling for action against gun violence.March for Our Lives: Maps of the More Than 800 Protests Around the WorldJust over a month after the Parkland mass school shooting, organizers have planned hundreds of demonstrations calling for stricter gun laws.In Gun Control Marches, Students Led but Adults Provided Key ResourcesThe March for Our Lives demonstrations were triumphs of organic, youthful grass-roots energy, and of sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.‘Something About Parkland Has Been Different’: Survivors From 20 Years of Mass Shootings SpeakWe spoke to survivors of mass shootings and others affected by them about the demonstrations planned for Saturday, March 24.20 Years After the Shooting on the PlaygroundThe writer of this Opinion essay, a survivor of the 1998 attack at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Ark., in which four students and a teacher were fatally shot, says, “It was jarring to find a group of survivors — my former classmates — as divided as our country.”Advertisers Drop Laura Ingraham After She Taunts Parkland Survivor David HoggMs. Ingraham had apologized for mocking Mr. Hogg over his college rejections. “She only apologized after we went after her advertisers,” he said. “It kind of speaks for itself.”Support for Gun Control Seems Strong. But It May Be Softer Than It LooksThe new activists are hoping the old patterns of weak support will change.What the Dreamers Can Teach the Parkland Kids“From one activist to another: Trust your instincts, study your history and don’t read the comments,” says this Opinion essay writer.Thank a TeenagerThis Opinion writer states, “At times yesterday, the protesting students seemed to be everywhere — on social media, on television, in communities. And they offered a needed jolt of inspiration in a dark political time.”National School Walkout: Thousands Protest Against Gun Violence Across the U.S.In a coordinated action, students left their classrooms and sometimes marched in the streets a month after 17 people were killed in a Florida high school.We Stand With the Students“The nation’s adults must listen to the students walking out of their schools Wednesday to protest gun violence,” states this editorial.Letting Teenagers LiveThis Opinion essay writer says, “Motor vehicle crashes kill more young people than shootings, and the issue is less affected by politics.”Mr. Trump, Here’s a Teenage Hero; It’s Your Turn!“A 15-year-old stood up to the Parkland gunman, yet the president won’t stand up to the N.R.A.,” states this Opinion essay.Parkland Students Find Themselves Targets of Lies and Personal AttacksDavid Hogg is not an actor. He was indeed at school that day. Emma González did not tear up a copy of the Constitution.Why I Didn’t Join My School’s WalkoutThe writer of this Opinion essay states, “I am a high school junior, and I shoot guns and hunt. Many of the kids protesting guns right now don’t seem to know that much about them.”I Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My Friends“The notion that the Parkland shootings wouldn’t have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous,” writes a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who as an eighth grader had been assigned to tutor Mr. Cruz through the school’s peer counseling program.Brother of Nikolas Cruz Arrested on Trespassing Charge at Stoneman Douglas High SchoolSheriff’s deputies stopped Zachary Cruz on Monday afternoon after he rode a skateboard onto the school’s property, the authorities said. School officials had told him to stay away.After Parkland, Turning Trauma Into ChangeStudents who survived the attacks at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School discuss the psychological aftermath.7 Times in History When Students Turned to ActivismThe survivors of the Parkland, Fla., high school shooting have surprised many with their public activism. But they are hardly the first students to push the adult world for political change.Arming TeachersIn as many as a dozen states, schools have already taken advantage of laws that allow employees to carry guns. Ohio is one of them.Who Should Be Armed in Florida Schools? Not Teachers, Lawmakers Say. But Maybe Librarians.After a debate on the State Senate floor on Monday, Republican legislative leaders backed off on arming most teachers, but voted to allow others in schools to carry guns.Why We Should Lower the Voting Age to 16“Young people ought to have a say in how school shootings are best prevented,” states this Opinion essay writer.Power to the Parents“Give kids the franchise — but let their parents exercise it,” says the writer of this Opinion essay.School Officer: A Job With Many Roles and One Big ResponsibilitySchool resource officers like the one under scrutiny following the Florida shooting are expected to act as counselors and instructors as well as the first line of defense.Dear National Rifle Association: We Won’t Let You Win. From, Teenagers.“Our parents did not succeed in ensuring our safety at school. So we must do it ourselves,” write the New Jersey high school students who penned this Opinion essay.Art Show Inspired by Parkland Shooting Victims Is Extended“I had a lot of feelings I’ve never had before while painting,” Manuel Oliver, the father of a slain student, said.How the Parkland Students Got So Good at Social MediaThe activist students of Stoneman Douglas, where 17 people were killed last month, are social media naturals. But it’s not entirely true that they’ve been tweeting all their lives.How Young Is Too Young for Protest? A National Gun-Violence Walkout Tests SchoolsA coordinated protest on Wednesday at schools across the U.S. has administrators making special plans for students who may not be old enough to handle the subject.With Gun Control Nearing a Dead End, G.O.P. Turns to ‘School Safety’The House plans to vote on legislation to beef up security at the nation’s schools, but Democrats accused Republicans of diverting attention from guns.Maryland School Gunman Confronted by Officer Shot Himself, Authorities SayThe St. Mary’s County Sheriff’s Office said Austin Wyatt Rollins fatally shot himself in the head at the same time an officer fired at him.Girl Shot at Maryland School Dies After Being Taken Off Life SupportJaelynn Willey, 16, was shot at Great Mills High School on Tuesday. She died, “surrounded by her family.”_________EducationWhat College Students Really Think About Free SpeechA new study finds that the vast majority of students strongly support free speech but struggle to balance it with their desire for inclusivity.The Ivy League Students Least Likely to Get MarriedAt Princeton, and in the American higher education system as a whole, there remains a strong correlation between marriage and economic class.The Growing College Graduation GapAccording to this Opinion essay writer, “More poor students are going to college than in the past. And yet the number who graduate is falling even further behind.”Yale Rape Verdict Shows How ‘Yes Means Yes’ Can Be Murkier in CourtThe acquittal in the case of Saifullah Khan showed how the consent standards that have been adopted at colleges may differ from those that prevail off campus.At Columbia, Revisiting the Revolutionary Students of 1968As the 50th anniversary of the 1968 student takeover approaches, the neglected story of African-American protesters is moving to the center of the story.It’s Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakAccording to this Opinion essay “as they admit more poor students, colleges need to do a better job of serving them.”Stop Asking About My Kid’s College Plans“Have you guys made your list yet?” everyone asks. I hate this question. “We” aren’t going to college; my daughter is,” states this Opinion essay writer.A Problem for High Schools: More Cars, and Nowhere to Park ThemIn wealthy Long Island communities, luxury cars have become a standard gift for teenagers. But most schools do not have the space to accommodate them.Understanding Student Mobbists“Younger generations have a different understanding of what’s wrong with society and how to fix it,” states this Opinion essay writer.Black Kids Don’t Want to Read About Harriet Tubman All the TimeThis Opinion essay writer says, “They need to see themselves reflected in stories that celebrate everyday beauty.”College Republicans Propose an Unusual Idea From the Right: A Carbon TaxGOP strategists said the budding movement reflected a broader shift on social issues that, if it spread, could split the party along generational lines._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessPatriotic Youth Army Takes Russian Kids Back to the FutureThe Youth Army, a recent Kremlin creation, is designed to imprint nationalist fervor, but critics doubt Russia needs a militaristic league for the young.Malala Yousafzai Returns to Pakistan for First Time Since AttackMs. Yousafzai, a Nobel laureate studying at Oxford, met with the prime minister and will visit a school she helped build near her native Swat Valley.Boko Haram Returns Dozens of Schoolgirls Kidnapped in NigeriaThe unexpected return of the girls may turn out to be a major propaganda coup for Boko Haram, although some girls are still missing, and the group warned the girls to never go back to school again.Boko Haram’s Seizure of 110 Girls Taunts Nigeria, and Its LeaderThe president has often declared the Islamist group defeated, so its latest mass abduction threatens to become a major issue in next year’s election.Trapped in Russian Mall Fire, Children Said Farewell by PhoneBlocked exits prevented people from escaping the blaze at a mall in Siberia, officials said. At least 64 people were killed, many of them children.‘Never Again’: Fighting Hate in a Changing Germany With Tours of Nazi CampsFerdous is from Afghanistan, Florentina from Kosovo and Damian from Berlin. A German high school class visited Sachsenhausen, where 50,000 are believed to have died during World War II.The Toys They Carried: Syrian Children Under SiegeChildren in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta are finding ways to pass the time in cramped basement shelters. But they are not insulated from the war.The Orphans of China’s Economic MiracleThis Opinion essay states, ““Millions of migrants have left their children behind in the villages — sometimes to live with family members, sometimes to fend for themselves.”A Young Monk Finds Her CallingIn Japan, a girl turns to her Buddhist faith to help rebuild her village temple destroyed in the tsunami seven years ago.Income Mobility Charts for Girls, Asian-Americans and Other Groups. Or Make Your OwnWatch men and women of any race grow up in the United States.New York Forgets Its Juvenile LifersAccording to this Opinion essay, “A new lawsuit challenges the parole board’s routine denials, even to those who have served decades and pose little or no safety risk.”Why Are Black Students Punished So Often? Minnesota Confronts a National QuandaryThe Trump administration is highlighting the struggles that Minneapolis and St. Paul face with disparities in school discipline, and putting a thumb on the scale.Americans Might No Longer Prefer Sons Over DaughtersNew evidence suggests a shift, possibly because of “a subtle fear of boys and the trouble they might bring.”_________Science, Health, Technology and SportsKarlie Kloss Teaches Teenage Girls How to CodeWhen she’s not jet-setting or hanging with Taylor Swift, the 25-year-old model runs a coding boot camp for young women.Are iPhones Bad for Kids?Two new books — Anya Kamenetz’s “The Art of Screen Time” and Naomi Schaefer Riley’s “Be the Parent, Please” — offer advice to anxious parents.Your Kid’s Phone Is Not Like a CigaretteThis Opinion writer states, “We can’t fight technology the way we fought Big Tobacco.”Take Your Daughter to the Movies, Not to Weight Watchers“Your 13-year-old does not need to count points” is one point raised in this Opinion essay.Are Today’s Teenagers Smarter and Better Than We Think?Childhood health experts have worried about kids raised on cellphones and social media. Student protests gave us a glimpse of the potential of Gen Z.In Sweden’s Preschools, Boys Learn to Dance and Girls Learn to YellThe state curriculum urges teachers to “counteract traditional gender roles,” and at one school, girls are encouraged to shout “No!” and boys run the play kitchen.Finding the Poetry in March MadnessThis Opinion essay writer says, “At Loyola, our poetry workshop was energized by our team’s win, not overshadowed by it.”At 15, Juggling Freshman Year and an International Squash CareerMarina Stefanoni of Darien, Conn., was the youngest player ever to compete in the Tournament of Champions. Having conquered junior events, she’s eyeing success in pro events while still in high school.Clarkson, a Tiny Hockey Hotbed, Aims for Two N.C.A.A. TitlesThe women’s team won its second national championship in a row and third in five years. Now, the men take their turn.After Historic Victory, U.M.B.C. Students Look Forward to the Next … LabIt wasn’t exactly mass hysteria Saturday on the campus that wins chess championships the way Duke collects basketball ones. The model U.N. team is tough, too.I Go to Duke. Do I Have to Care About Basketball?This Opinion essay writer, a senior at Duke University, describes what happened before a basketball game started: “I am handed a tip sheet with instructions: “‘Yell "Woo" every time you jump,' and shout strategically mean things at the correct moments.”When College Basketball Teams Invade New York, an Empty Gym Is Hard to FindThe 25 men’s college basketball teams competing this week in the Big East and Atlantic Coast Conference tournaments all need places to practice.Suicides, Drug Addiction and High School FootballThe dire existence of young athletes in Madison, Ind.: “You just can’t believe this is all happening in one small community.”_________Arts, Media and CultureThe Prom-Like Intensity of High School FolklóricoIn the Central Valley in California, students gathered for an event celebrating a storied dance tradition steeped in Mexican culture.On Netflix, a Growing Wave of Shows for and About Teenagers“Alexa & Katie” and “On My Block” join a roster that includes “13 Reasons Why,” “Stranger Things” and “Everything Sucks.”With ‘Rise,’ a ‘Friday Night Lights’ for Theater KidsNBC’s “Rise,” isn’t “Glee” and it isn’t “Fame.” “The mantra is to always keep it as realistic and honest as possible,” said its showrunner, Jason Katims.Does Gay Hollywood Have Room for Queer Kids?This Opinion essay writer states, “The unspoken rule of gay cinema and television: Masculine leads only.”Finding New Meaning in ‘Mean Girls’The movie is beloved. But it also pits girls against girls. How, then, do you make a stage musical that satisfies fans and meets our cultural moment?Opening Young Minds With the Arts When Schools Are ClosedHere’s a roundup of activities, from Muppet movies to zombie tag, at New York museums during the public school spring break._________AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael M. GrynbaumNow in its 19th year, The New Yorker Festival is as much a staple of bourgeois New York life as sneaking a sauvignon blanc into Shakespeare in the Park.This year’s attractions include a panel with the Trump-bashing lawyer Michael Avenatti, Chris Hayes of MSNBC “making sense of the madness” and the traditional restaurant crawl led by the writer Calvin Trillin. (The foodie tour costs $249 a ticket, and usually sells out in minutes.)Polarizing guests have appeared in the past, like Roger Stone and Edward J. Snowden. But the festival is marketed more as a fantasy camp for liberals, thousands of whom take the opportunity to commune with a magazine they consider their own.By Tuesday, however, the festival had become an unlikely target for questions of free speech and journalistic ethics that have lately divided the political left.The announcement of an onstage interview with Stephen K. Bannon, the ex-chairman of Breitbart News and a former adviser to President Trump, prompted an outcry on Twitter and among some members of the magazine’s staff.Critics said the interview, to be conducted by the magazine’s editor, David Remnick, would provide a megaphone for Mr. Bannon’s hard-right, anti-immigrant views. A number of celebrities who were scheduled to appear at the festival, including the writer and director Judd Apatow and the comedians Patton Oswalt and John Mulaney, said they would bow out.After discussions with his staff, Mr. Remnick said late Monday that he had erred in inviting Mr. Bannon, and that he would seek an alternate forum for the interview. Mr. Bannon quickly slammed Mr. Remnick as “gutless.” Some journalists questioned Mr. Remnick’s decision to disinvite Mr. Bannon, asking why an interview would be perceived as an endorsement, rather than an interrogation, of an influential figure’s views.The New Yorker’s own editorial team was divided. Alexandra Schwartz, a staff writer, wrote on Twitter that she was “hugely relieved that the event will not happen.” Her colleague Malcolm Gladwell replied: “Call me old-fashioned. But I would have thought that the point of a festival of ideas was to expose the audience to ideas. If you only invite your friends over, it’s called a dinner party.”It was not clear how many of the celebrities who had objected to Mr. Bannon’s participation now planned to return. Mr. Apatow, in an email, said he now planned to attend. A New Yorker spokeswoman said several speakers had reconfirmed their participation, while others were still considering it.With its intramural outrage and social media sniping, the episode mirrored broader debates that have roiled liberals since Mr. Trump’s stunning rise. At college campuses, speakers like the conservative author Charles Murray have been shouted down by audience members. “De-platforming,” the practice of stymieing public appearances by ideological opponents, has been endorsed by some on the left as a more effective tactic than debate.And political journalists have faced questions about the wisdom of giving a venue to divisive figures like Mr. Bannon, even as incendiary, Breitbart-style views have been embraced by a significant portion of Americans.“I’m not going to congratulate the New Yorker for rescinding an invitation that should have never been offered or for believing there was valuable intellectual insight to be gained from a polite conversation w/ a fascist,” the author Roxane Gay, who is a contributing opinion writer to The New York Times, wrote on Twitter.The uproar over the festival was a reminder of The New Yorker’s unique place in the media ecosystem. Mr. Bannon appeared at a Financial Times forum in March, and he is scheduled to speak at an event sponsored by The Economist this month; both attracted relatively little comment.The Economist, which had already publicized Mr. Bannon’s appearance, issued a statement on Tuesday saying its invitation would stand. “The future of open societies will not be secured by like-minded people speaking to each other in an echo chamber, but by subjecting ideas and individuals from all sides to rigorous questioning and debate,” the magazine’s editor, Zanny Minton Beddoes, wrote. She noted that Mr. Bannon had become an influential figure on the European right.Readers of The New Yorker, though, and particularly the die-hards who attend the annual event, feel an attachment to the magazine and its cosmopolitan values. Mr. Remnick, in a note to his staff, wrote that the festival’s unique atmosphere was a factor in why he had changed his mind.“There is a better way to do this,” he wrote. “Our writers have interviewed Steve Bannon for The New Yorker before, and if the opportunity presents itself I’ll interview him in a more traditionally journalistic setting as we first discussed, and not on stage.”The festival was a pioneer of the ticketed live events increasingly common in the news business. Publications including The Times, facing dwindling revenue, have created conferences and forums where readers pay to interact with journalists and newsmakers.Among the sponsors of this year’s New Yorker Festival are Hennessy VSOP, the beverage behemoth, and the auto manufacturer Land Rover. Losing big draws like the actor Jim Carrey, who also said he would not participate if the interview with Mr. Bannon was on the bill, might have jeopardized the event’s success.Some at The New Yorker, however, viewed the cancellation of Mr. Bannon’s appearance as its own form of defeat.“Journalism is about hearing opposing views,” the author Lawrence Wright, a longtime New Yorker staff writer, wrote on Twitter. “I regret that this event is not taking place.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe Cleveland Cavaliers were rested after five days off. They were in top form, having whipped the top-seeded Toronto Raptors in four straight games. And most important, they had LeBron James, who has played in seven straight N.B.A. Finals.Perhaps because of James’s mystique, the Cavaliers were almost 3-1 favorites in the Eastern Conference Finals against the Boston Celtics despite not having home court advantage. Playing on the road in Sunday’s Game 1, they were one and a half point favorites. The Celtics were not getting much respect; they had been underdogs with home court in the conference semifinals against the 76ers as well.So how did the Cavs lose, 108-83, in Game 1?The Cavaliers start and end with James, of course. And James had a terrible game. He scored only 15 points, lower than all but three of his 82 regular-season games. He shot 5 for 16, missed all five of his 3-point attempts, had no offensive rebounds or steals and committed seven turnovers, all playoff-worst figures for him this year.Many observers credited the defense of Boston’s Marcus Morris for James’s rough night. During the run-up to the game, Morris had made the seemingly ill-advised move to claim he could stop James. “Personally, I think I’m probably the best guy defending him in the league, outside of Kawhi” Leonard of the Spurs, he told ESPN.Morris joined the Celtics’ starting lineup for the first time all playoffs and wound up playing 34 minutes. It paid off. The Celtics led by 26 points by halftime, the largest playoff margin ever over a team with James.Morris shared the praise after the game. “It’s a team effort, man, it’s not just me,” he told reporters.  “Everybody played a part in guarding him. He’s obviously the best player in the game, and you need multiple guys and a team to guard him.“James was among those who credited Morris. “I thought they had great game plan Game 1; he was the start of it,” he said. “He was my matchup, and I think they did a great job of communicating throughout the whole game.”Al Horford was also often on hand to stop James. “He covered for us a lot defensively,” Coach Brad Stevens told reporters. “He did a great job when he switched. He did a great job when he was in help. He’s our rock.”Defense is famously hard to measure statistically; Morris’s advanced defensive metrics are not electrifying. At 6-foot-9, he is known for his versatility and his ability to defend almost any type of player. He had helped slow James before, holding him to 19 points on Jan. 3, in another Celtics win in Boston.But Morris also had 21 points, tying his seasonal playoff high. Jaylen Brown scored 23 and Al Horford added 20 for Boston.Still, it’s a seven-game series. “I have zero level of concern at this stage,” James told The Cleveland Plain Dealer. “I didn’t go to college. So it’s not March Madness.”James has just about always figured it out before. With Game 2 set for Tuesday, he had better start figuring.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHear our critics’ weekly playlist, including serpentwithfeet, Snail Mail and Jorja Smith.By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni RussonelloEvery Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos — and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.Quick to leverage her widely praised exposure on Kanye West’s “Ye,” the New Jersey singer and rapper 070 Shake gets even more depressive on “Mirrors”: a slow, two-chord, rap-inflected track about absolute suicidal despair. “I just can’t escape from the demons/I think I gotta end them,” she incants. The video shows her driving a Mustang along a coastline, but it’s not a romantic road trip: it’s self-immolation, and let’s hope it’s only a fantasy. J.P.Recording as serpentwithfeet, the songwriter Josiah Wise has forged a private, idiosyncratic mysticism from gospel imagery, personal obsessions, androgynous vocals and productions that turn the studio into church, fun house and asylum at the same time. His first full-length album, “soil,” is released today; it includes “seedless,” a slow, surreal march — complete with church bells and throngs of shape-shifting backup vocals — that grapples with sexual impulses even as it promises, “I’ll comfort you.” J.P.A heaping slab of power country from Kane Brown, one of Nashville’s most promising young stars and also one of its most flexible. “Lose It” begins sorrowful, turns urgent and saucy, then explodes into broad-spectrum ecstasy — Mr. Brown navigates them all with cool aplomb. J.C.The bass line has a steel-drum shimmer and an old-Motown sense of uplift; the drums spatter like 2010s trap. And the positive thinking of “Liberated” uses the superficial as a springboard to idealism. Dej Loaf raps about “girls that need no makeup” and Leon Bridges applies his Sam Cooke fervor to thoughts like, “Don’t aspire to be what you see in the magazines.” But they’re both on their way to a larger message of proud self-acceptance: “Get up on your feet/If you got the feeling you can be free.” J.P. Nothing is resolved in “Let’s Find an Out” — not the chords, not the melody, not the situation. It’s mostly just guitar picking and Lindsey Jordan’s voice, with little flickers of percussion and reticent lyrics: “Let’s find an out/We can start anew.” The third verse feels more like a bridge than a conclusion, and where it leads is uncertain. J.P.If major-label jazz still worked like it did in the 1950s — when top-tier musicians would constantly take turns appearing on each other’s albums — we might see more records like “Colagically Speaking.” Due June 15 on Blue Note, this is the debut of R+R=NOW, comprising a cross-section of young musicians working to keep mentholated, electric improvising cool in 2018, including Robert Glasper on piano and Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah on trumpet. On “Needed You Still,” Mr. Martin sings wistfully of love’s uncertainties, then the actor and rapper Omari Hardwick comes in, grumbling and purring a romantic plea. “I put faith in no man, but in you I trust.” GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO“Midsummer Madness” is a soothing, tender posse cut from the 88rising collective, a group of (mostly) Asian and Asian-American rappers and singers from locales far and wide. In the soft-focus video, the whole crew lets loose at the beach, a combination of exuberant and silly. It’s a charming representation of a song about fickleness, anchored by Joji, who sings the hook, one of his best, about dystopic nights and the feelings they engender. J.C.The English R&B songwriter Jorja Smith could use her supple voice and pearly, swaying electric-piano grooves to make her music a soothing escape, but she has other ambitions in this song from the debut album she releases on Friday, “Lost & Found.” The blue lights accompany police sirens, and in a poor, crime-ridden neighborhood their arrival brings fear even to bystanders who might get swept into trouble. “Don’t you run when you hear the sirens coming,” she sings at first, “if you’ve done nothing wrong, blue lights should just pass you by.” But later she’s not so sure: “Better run when you hear the sirens coming,” she advises. J.P.It’s not the same as it ever was. Angelique Kidjo releases her transformative remake of Talking Heads’ entire album “Remain in Light” on Friday, and it raises the ante on every parameter of the original. There are more layers of vocal melody, more percussion, more polyrhythm, more direct connections to the guitars and horns of African pop, more languages among the lyrics and, of course, enormous soul and annunciatory power in Ms. Kidjo’s voice. In a world that’s far more interconnected than when “Remain in Light” was released in 1980, the songs remain eerily contemporary. J.P.“Questions” may sound familiar. During the long gestation of “The Midnight Hour” — a collaboration by the producers and composers Ali Shaheed Muhammad (from A Tribe Called Quest) and Adrian Younge — Kendrick Lamar grabbed the track for his 2016 collection “untitled unmastered,” turning it into “untitled 06 | 06.30.2014.” Now it’s back as a retro smooth-soul song minus Mr. Lamar’s rap: a falsetto ballad with CeeLo Green advising, “Both sides of me are evenly odd” and urging “Let me explain” over a brisk Latin beat and suave strings. It’s an access point to an amiable throwback of an album that cherishes analog-style 1990s hip-hop, with a jazzy studio band and guests including Bilal, Raphael Saadiq, Ladybug Mecca (of Digable Planets), Laeticia Sadier (of Stereolab) and Luther Vandross’s vocals from “So Amazing,” reimagined with a more organic backup track. J.P.Who says the tempo has to hold steady in order for a song to rock? When the chords break down altogether, do the instruments have to stay together neatly in order to form a coherent whole? On “Cruel Heartless Bastards,” written by the bassist Michael Formanek, Mary Halvorson’s guitar goes from charging muscle to snarled melody to overdriven fuzz. Mr. Formanek’s big, expressive instrument remains unfixed but supportive underneath. This tune comes from “Ours,” a disc of originals by Thumbscrew (the trio also features the drummer Tomas Fujiwara) that comes out Friday, along with a covers album, titled “Theirs.” G.R.Jon Pareles has been The Times's chief pop music critic since 1988. A musician, he has played in rock bands, jazz groups and classical ensembles. He majored in music at Yale University.  @JonPareles Jon Caramanica is a pop music critic for The Times and the host of the Popcast. He also writes the men's Critical Shopper column for Styles. He previously worked for Vibe magazine, and has written for the Village Voice, Spin, XXL and more.  @joncaramanica AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By James McBrideTHE SOURCE OF SELF-REGARD Selected Essays, Speeches, and Meditations By Toni MorrisonIn 1982, when I was a 24-year-old reporter at The Boston Globe, I was sent to cover Harvard University’s Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year ceremony. The award that year went to the jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald. The ceremony took place in a theater packed with students. When Fitzgerald stood at the podium to offer her thanks, a young voice suddenly piped out, “Sing, Ella!” A second student shouted, “Please sing, Ella!” A chorus quickly enveloped the room. “Sing, Ella!” they shouted, “Sing, Ella, sing!”I watched, fuming. Fitzgerald had already sung. She sang for 40 years. In clubs and juke joints, at weddings and dances, in sweatboxes, filthy bars and rancid watering holes, even at a Harvard class reunion two decades before. As a child, she was a musical genius, born with perfect pitch. When she was 15, her mother died, and she essentially wandered around New York City in the mid-1930s as a homeless teenager, until the bandleader Chick Webb gave her a gig — and Webb had to be talked into it, because female singers were adornments in those days. She sang her way to the top of the music world. Now at 64, she was feeble, nearly blind, the diabetes that would plague her until the end of her life some agonizing years later already crippling her ability to walk. And these privileged kids, some of whom had marched in a giddy parade earlier dressed in tutus and clown costumes in a time-honored Harvard tradition that was somehow venerable because, well, they’d been doing it at Harvard for decades, wanted her to sing. Sing your own damn selves, was my thought.But the First Lady of Song was gracious. She stood at the microphone, and sang a soft a cappella verse from the 1930 song “I’ve Got a Crush on You.” She forgot the lyrics in the middle, then remembered them, and ended by pointing at the kids and singing “I love you … and you … and you. …” They loved it. It was gorgeous madness.I still remember that event 37 years later. I remember Fitzgerald’s grace, her style, her silent understanding of the moment. I had no reason to be angry. It was her moment, not mine. She was the First Lady of Song. She endured more pain and suffering than I knew or would ever know. Her pain and joys were hers to guard, to share, to translate into her art as she saw fit. She had the benefit of wisdom, which I, a young hothead, did not.Which brings to mind another first lady in her field.Toni Morrison, the author and Nobel Prize winner, turned 88 on Feb. 18. I have never met Morrison. And while you’ll likely see a donkey fly before you see her stand before a bunch of Harvard undergraduates and sing on demand, the fact is Toni Morrison is very much like Ella Fitzgerald. Like Fitzgerald, she rose from humble beginnings to world prominence. Like Fitzgerald, she is intensely private. And like Fitzgerald, she has given every iota of her extraordinary American-born talent and intellect to the great American dream. Not the one with the guns and bombs bursting in air. The other one, the one with world peace, justice, racial harmony, art, literature, music and language that shows us how to be free wrapped in it. Morrison has, as they say in church, lived a life of service. Whatever awards and acclaim she has won, she has earned. She has paid in full. She owes us nothing.Yet even as she moves into the October of life, Morrison, quietly and without ceremony, lays another gem at our feet. “The Source of Self-Regard” is a book of essays, lectures and meditations, a reminder that the old music is still the best, that in this time of tumult and sadness and continuous war, where tawdry words are blasted about like junk food, and the nation staggers from one crisis to the next, led by a president with all the grace of a Cyclops and a brain the size of a full-grown pea, the mightiness, the stillness, the pure power and beauty of words delivered in thought, reason and discourse, still carry the unstoppable force of a thousand hammer blows, spreading the salve of righteousness that can heal our nation and restore the future our children deserve. This book demonstrates once again that Morrison is more than the standard-bearer of American literature.She is our greatest singer. And this book is perhaps her most important song.Close your eyes and make a wish. Wish that one of the most informed, smartest, most successful people in your profession walks into your living room, pulls up a chair and says, “This is what I’ve been thinking. …” That’s “The Source of Self-Regard.” The book is structured in three parts: “The Foreigner’s Home,” “Black Matter(s)” and “God’s Language.” There are 43 ruminations in all. It opens with a stirring tribute to the 9/11 victims, then fans out into matters of art, language and history. It includes a gorgeous eulogy for James Baldwin, a powerful address she delivered to Amnesty International (“The War on Error,” about the need for a “heightened battle against cultivated ignorance, enforced silence and metastasizing lies”) and meditations on the thinking behind several of her early important novels. The bursts of rumination examine world history, skirt religion, scour philosophy, racism, anti-Semitism, femininity, war and folk tales, and are dotted with references to writers like Isak Dinesen and the deeply gifted African novelist Camara Laye. There’s even a tidbit or two about her closely guarded personal life. But the real magic is witnessing her mind and imagination at work. They are as fertile and supple as jazz.It is through jazz, actually, that one can best understand the imaginative power and technical mastery that Morrison has achieved over the course of her literary journey. No American writer I can think of, past or present, incorporates jazz into his or her writing with greater effect. Her work doesn’t bristle with jazz. It is jazz. Her novel of the same name is an homage to the genre. Jazz eats everything in its path — rock, classical, Latin. Like the great jazz musicians who evolved out of bebop and moved to free jazz, and whose later work demands listening, Morrison’s later novels are almost as enjoyable listened to as read. That is why, I suspect, she spends exhausting hours in the studio recording her books, instead of letting actors do the job. She’s the bandleader. She wrote the music. She knows where the song is going.One way to appreciate Morrison’s supreme blend of technical and literary creativity — without reading a word of her books — is to listen to the unedited version of Nina Simone’s recording of the swing-era song “Good Bait,” made famous by Count Basie. Simone, a singer and musical genius, doesn’t vocalize on the recording. She plays piano. She begins with a gorgeous, improvised fugue, is joined by a bassist and a drummer and leads the trio in light supper-club swing, and intensifies into muscular Count Basie-like, big-band punches. She then breaks loose from the trio altogether and blasts into a solo, two-part contrapuntal Bach-like invention, which develops momentarily into three parts. She blows through the fugue-like passages with such power you can almost hear the bassist and drummer getting to their feet as they rejoin. But she’s left them. She’s gone! She closes the piece with a flourishing Beethoven-like concerto ending, having traveled through three key changes and four time signature changes. That’s not jazz. That’s composition. It’s also Toni Morrison.It bears mentioning that young Nina Simone auditioned for entry into Philadelphia’s Curtis Institute of Music, America’s premier music institution, and was turned down, a snub she never forgot. Similarly, Morrison was not a favored child in the publishing industry or any other kind of industry in her young years. She was born in Lorain, Ohio, to lower-middle-class parents. After graduating from the historically black Howard University and getting an M.A. from Cornell, she taught in two different states and raised two boys as a single mother before settling into an editing job in New York, where she unearthed several important black writers, including Toni Cade Bambara and the gifted poet Henry Dumas. Her generosity toward young writers is not well known outside the industry, hidden by a shy, cautious personality and a straightforward, matter-of-fact persona. A few years ago she recounted to an interviewer that as a young girl, she had a cleaning job in a rich white person’s home. Her employer yelled at her one day for being a useless cleaner. She ran home in distress. Her mother told her to quit, but her father, a steelworker, gave her a stern lecture that Morrison never forgot: “Go to work, make your money and come home. You don’t live there.”I am so glad she took his advice. I used to believe that God created Toni Morrison for the voiceless among us, that He knelt down and encouraged a little black girl in Lorain, Ohio, to whisper “I want blue eyes” to her friend Chloe Wofford, who, 30 years, two children, one divorce, one name change and more than four cities later, would sit down at age 39 and stick a pin in the balloon of white supremacy, and in the hissing noise that followed create “The Bluest Eye,” one of the greatest sonnets in the canon of American literature. But I don’t believe that anymore.Toni Morrison does not belong to black America. She doesn’t belong to white America. She is not “one of us.” She is all of us. She is not one nation. She is every nation. Her life is an instruction manual on how to be humble enough, small enough, tiny enough, gracious enough, heartful enough, big enough, to do what Ella Fitzgerald did at Harvard 37 years ago. To take an unknowing audience in the cradle of her hand and say, “I love you … and you … and you. …” To love someone. It’s the greatest democratic act imaginable. It’s the greatest novel ever written. Isn’t that why we read books in the first place?James McBride is an author, musician and distinguished writer in residence at the N.Y.U. Carter Journalism Institute.THE SOURCE OF SELF-REGARD Selected Essays, Speeches, and Meditations By Toni Morrison 350 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $28.95.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam Nossiter, Alissa J. Rubin and Aurelien BreedenPARIS — A fourth weekend of antigovernment protests in France turned violent again on Saturday, with demonstrators in Paris burning cars and ripping down barricades from store fronts, while the riot police fired tear gas and water cannons to control the crowds.The so-called Yellow Vests descended on the capital by the thousands, even as the police turned out in force, blocking off roads and monuments.Nearly 1,400 people were arrested nationwide. In Paris, many were detained before they could even reach the central site of the demonstrations along Paris’s main artery, the Champs-Élysées.The huge police presence in the capital — absent last Saturday — appeared far more able to contain the violence. The show of force reflected a change from preceding weeks, with law enforcement often engaging with the vandals before they could act.“The situation is under control even though there are still some hot spots in the provinces,” Interior Minister Christophe Castaner said Saturday evening.“The escalation of violence has been brought to a stopping point,” he added, crediting the more mobile strategy of the police. The violence, while contained, was “totally unacceptable,” he said.The minister said 118 demonstrators and 17 police officers were injured nationwide on Saturday. Last week, about 200 protesters were injured, as well as more than 200 police officers, the interior ministry said.Since the demonstrations began four weeks ago, four people have died.The Yellow Vests take their name from the fluorescent hazard vests adopted by the protesters as a sign of their economic distress.Initially, their ranks were filled by members of the working poor from rural areas and urban outskirts, who were dismayed by a planned increase in a fuel tax, which the government canceled this past week in a retreat.But that did not quell the outrage, which has morphed into much broader anger at President Emmanuel Macron’s economic policies, and France’s declining living standards.The Yellow Vests have inspired copycat demonstrations elsewhere, including in the Netherlands, Hungary and neighboring Belgium.About 100 people were detained in Belgium on Saturday as the police used tear gas and water cannons against at least 1,000 protesters who threw stones and smashed street signs and traffic lights.In Paris, a planned climate march by environmentalists in support of policies to slow global warming drew about 17,000 people, more than the Yellow Vest protests, according to the government.That demonstration was supposed to be held not far from some of the Yellow Vest protest areas, but was moved to another part of Paris.President Trump weighed in on the riots in several tweets; one said it may be time to do away with the Paris climate change accord, from which the United States has withdrawn.“Very sad day & night in Paris,” he said. “Maybe it’s time to end the ridiculous and extremely expensive Paris Agreement and return money back to the people in the form of lower taxes?”Édouard Philippe, the French prime minister, said Mr. Macron would speak early next week to address the movement. The president has been criticized for remaining silent about the protests.Around the country, more than 125,000 people turned out for mostly peacefully demonstrations in cities including Marseille, Nice and Nantes, the authorities said.But later in the day, clashes broke out in Bordeaux and Toulouse, where protesters set makeshift barricades on fire.Overall, the number of protesters nationwide has dwindled since more than 280,000 turned out the first weekend on Nov. 17, according to the French authorities.This week was the lowest turnout since the movement began. And in Paris, the unrest did not rise to the level of last weekend’s protests, the country’s worst urban unrest in decades.But some of the dire warnings about violence from French officials did come to pass.By midafternoon in Paris, more radical elements and professional vandals — known as “casseurs,” or “breakers” — had ripped down plywood barricades that had been placed over the windows of nearly every business in hopes of preventing smashing and looting.The Champs-Élysées was quickly covered in tear gas, and hundreds of people beat a hasty retreat down the avenue.In some areas, the casseurs — young men dressed in black — could easily be distinguished from the Yellow Vests, often middle-aged men from the countryside.In at least two instances on the Champs-Élysées, Yellow Vests replaced protective boards ripped down from shop windows by the casseurs.And Yellow Vests looked on in horror and bemusement as vandals smashed in the windows of a sporting-goods store and made off with boxes of sneakers on one chic avenue around the Arc de Triomphe.“This is just madness,” said a middle-aged Yellow Vest, Franck Morlat, a train driver who had traveled from central France. “Totally unacceptable.”Others around him looked disgusted.As protesters were smashing in windows with golf clubs, an ambulance driver and Yellow Vest who gave her name only as Stephanie said: “Sure it’s sad. But if it hadn’t come to this, nothing would change.”Demonstrators tried to set fire to a drugstore on the Champs-Élysées, placing burning Christmas trees against the facade. A line of police officers charged down the avenue, dispersing the crowd and knocking down barricades hastily erected by small groups of demonstrators.The melees were punctuated by shouts of “Macron Resign,” impromptu bursts of the French national anthem, and curses spat at the police and members of the news media.Elsewhere in the city, a car burned out of control as the police moved in to chase away the vandals. A line of armored vehicles moved down a boulevard, trying to disperse stone-throwing casseurs and to break up barricades.Police officers on horseback charged a group of vandals set to wreak havoc on a business-lined street at the edge of the historic Marais district.“This time they gave themselves the means to master the casseurs,” said Christian Mouhanna, a police expert at the National Center for Scientific Research.“Why, the last time, did they let the casseurs get away with so much?” Mr. Mouhanna asked. “They saw that that strategy didn’t work.”About 89,000 members of the security forces were deployed across the country on Saturday, including 8,000 in Paris, compared with 4,600 a week earlier.In a rare step, the gendarmerie, one of the country’s two national police forces, deployed 12 armored vehicles in the French capital, a sign of the authorities’ nervousness.At the start of the day in Paris, eight police vehicles blocked access to the Arc de Triomphe, a quasi-sacred national symbol that was defaced last weekend.The police also hemmed in demonstrators at the other end of the Champs-Élysées, near the seat of the French presidency and the Place de la Concorde.Police detachments were set up at all major central Paris intersections. Stores and dozens of city buildings as well as most monuments and museums were closed, even those far from the protest areas, including the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre and the Musée d’Orsay.The city’s two opera houses canceled Saturday shows. More than 35 subway stops were closed.City workers removed more than 2,000 metal gratings, construction barriers and other items to prevent them from being used as weapons or as barricades. Officials also recommended that people move their vehicles and bicycles from protest areas. Residents of many wealthier neighborhoods in Paris left as a precaution.Elsewhere in France, the authorities also took steps to prevent violence.The top French soccer league postponed six games across the country, including in Paris, Toulouse, Angers and Nîmes.Museums were closed in Bordeaux, and the city of Lyon took extra security measures for its annual Light Festival.Throughout Saturday, the determination of the protesters in Paris did not change, nor had their motivation.“We drove all night,” said Julien Lezer, an electrician from the Var region, on the Mediterranean. “We don’t agree with the current system anymore; it doesn’t represent us.”“It’s not in the regions that things change,” he continued. “It’s in Paris. It’s when the people from the regions go to Paris that the politicians listen.”Axelle Cavalheiro, who works with disabled people, came from the Ain, near Lyon.“We are overtaxed,” she said. “There are taxes on everything, gas.”“At the Élysée,’’ she added, referring to the presidential palace, ‘‘they spend 300,000 euros on carpeting, 10,000 a month for the hairdresser.’’Elian Peltier contributed reporting from Paris, and David Shimer from Brussels.Follow Aurelien Breeden and Elian Peltier on Twitter: @aurelienbrd and @ElianPeltier.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Dave ItzkoffLOS ANGELES — The woman in the black-and-white program on the flat-screen TV was teetering on the brink of madness, delivering a disjointed monologue about parallel worlds and the possibility that our own physical duplicates might walk among us. As the camera hovered above her troubled face and the decades-old audio crackled with the sound of a persistent rainstorm, Jordan Peele sat captivated on a nearby couch. “Beautiful shot,” he said with quiet awe.Here in his personal office, Peele, the celebrated comedian turned Academy Award-winning horror filmmaker, was watching an old episode of “The Twilight Zone,” the classic science-fiction anthology series that he is helping to revive.On a recent March morning, Peele had, with some calculation, chosen a 1960 installment called “Mirror Image,” from the show’s debut season. It stars Vera Miles (“Psycho”) as a woman convinced she is being followed by her exact double, and Martin Milner (“Route 66”) as the man who doesn’t believe her until it is too late.Peele has pointed to “Mirror Image” as an inspiration for his new film, “Us,” in which Lupita Nyong’o and her family are besieged by murderous doppelgängers. He also admires the episode, written by the “Twilight Zone” creator Rod Serling, for its ability to elicit jump-scares without relying on supernatural beasts or extraterrestrial beings. In his favorite tales of terror, Peele told me, “I love human beings as the monster, as the horror.”This is a suspenseful juncture for Peele, who grew up revering “The Twilight Zone,” and Serling in particular, for imbuing the show with a social consciousness and using its genre tropes to address the ills and anxieties of Cold War-era America.Four years after the end of “Key & Peele” and two years after his directorial debut, “Get Out,” his hit thriller about seemingly well-intentioned white people who insert themselves into black people’s bodies, Peele is now an executive producer of a new “Twilight Zone” series. (The first episodes will be released April 1 on CBS All Access.) He is also playing the part of its dapper, deadpan narrator, book-ending each episode as Serling did on the show.Peele accepted this on-camera role warily, and was uneasy about bringing back “The Twilight Zone” at all. He doesn’t easily embrace comparisons to Serling, a singularly influential figure in television who wrote many of the show’s most beloved segments and helped audiences see contemporary consequences in his stories of enchanted artifacts, interstellar travel and nuclear Armageddon.But in this tale of unlikely parallels, Peele has been shadowing Serling’s trajectory all along, whether or not he wants to admit it. He, too, has used genre entertainment to convey otherwise unpalatable truths to his viewers, deploying sketch comedy to comment on police brutality or horror movies to skewer self-satisfied liberals.In his efforts to resuscitate “The Twilight Zone,” he has been reminded of a valuable lesson that might explain why he is, after all, a worthy successor to Serling’s mantle — an instructive philosophy that Peele said is as applicable to horror as it is to comedy: Always be thinking ahead of your viewers.“If you can predict where an audience thinks it’s going to go, you can use it against them,” he said. “And they’ll love you for it.”These days there are many twists and turns in Peele’s life, including the vertiginous path up the Hollywood Hills to an outpost of his company, Monkeypaw Productions. The building is a sparsely furnished colonial home where “Us” was edited, and his personal office is decorated with vinyl dolls of the creepy twin girls from “The Shining”; a lunch box depicting Daniel Kaluuya’s tear-streaked face in “Get Out”; and — oh, yes — the Oscar that Peele won for writing its screenplay.The smash success of “Get Out” (which took in more than $255 million worldwide) has enabled Peele to produce countless other projects, including Spike Lee’s “BlacKkKlansman” and the Amazon documentary series “Lorena,” as well as coming horror offerings like the HBO series “Lovecraft Country” and a remake of the movie “Candyman.”Peele, 40, doesn’t carry himself like a budding media mogul. He was dressed today like a stylish cult member, in black sweat clothes and white Nikes, and he spoke softly and haltingly about his accomplishments. “Obviously, I have an ego,” he said, “but I’m in constant attempts to remind myself where I come from and to humble myself. It’s how I work best.”Before he broke through as a professional portrayer of President Obama and college football players with names like L’Carpetron Dookmarriot, Peele was — and still is — an unapologetic pop-culture geek who grew up on “Gremlins,” “Jaws” and Tim Burton movies. Another crucial touchstone was “The Twilight Zone”: It originally aired on CBS from 1959 to 1964, and his mother introduced him to the reruns.Peele is pretty sure the first episode he saw was “To Serve Man,” from 1962, in which humans discover that the titular text of a seemingly benevolent alien race is actually a cookbook. Though time and familiarity have reduced this twist ending to a dad joke, Peele argued that “To Serve Man” was still bone-chilling. “You tell somebody that and it sounds pretty silly — watch the episode and you’re ready to believe it,” he said.His pop perspective was shaped by other vintage installments, also written by Serling: “The Monsters Are Due on Maple Street” and “I Am the Night — Color Me Black,” which dealt directly with societal bias and racism, and cruelly ironic episodes like “Time Enough at Last,” in which Burgess Meredith plays the bookish survivor of an atomic apocalypse, stranded with a lifetime supply of reading material and a pair of broken glasses.“I love the ones that, essentially, take someone’s tragic flaw and exploit it,” Peele said. “You set up a character and you show their tailor-made worst nightmare.”Serling, who died in 1975, envisioned “The Twilight Zone” as a delivery system for parables with deliberate messages of social justice and allegories of human weakness and folly, coated in a digestible layer of fantasy.As his widow, Carol Serling, told me, its sci-fi trappings allowed her husband to avoid creative interference and “get his points across — his social feelings that he wanted to talk about.”In that era of television, she said, “You couldn’t do this, you couldn’t do that, you couldn’t put the Chrysler Building onscreen if another car company was sponsoring the show, which was crazy. He felt that by escaping into outer space, so to speak, he could get these stories across — and he did.”“The Twilight Zone” has already spawned a 1983 movie and two other TV revivals, from 1985-9 and 2002-3, none regarded anywhere near as fondly as the original series. For the past few years, Simon Kinberg (a writer, producer and director of the “X-Men” film franchise) had been contemplating a new TV incarnation but couldn’t crack it. Should it tell a serialized story? Feature a repertory cast? Take place in an actual location called the Twilight Zone? These changes felt gimmicky and wrong.More crucially, Kinberg said, “There wasn’t a feeling of historical relevancy to the show, because we were living in a moment of, at least, perceived stability.”Then two things happened: first, the 2016 presidential election. Next, Kinberg and his colleagues saw “Get Out,” which they regarded as a modern-day “Twilight Zone” in its own right. Soon, Peele and Kinberg were meeting to hash out ideas and realizing that perhaps the show’s classic formula didn’t need updating after all.“In many ways it feels like somehow the wires got crossed and we’re in the wrong dimension — this was not supposed to be like this,” Peele said. “It felt like, if Serling were here, he’d have a lot to say and a lot of new episodes he couldn’t have written back in his time.”Their new installments include “Nightmare at 30,000 Feet” (which has a teleplay by Marco Ramirez, and a story by Peele, Kinberg and Ramirez), a homage, of sorts, to the “Twilight Zone” original “Nightmare at 20,000 Feet” and starring Adam Scott as an airline passenger convinced his flight is in terrible danger. Another episode, “Replay” (written by Selwyn Seyfu Hinds) follows a mother and son, played by Sanaa Lathan and Damson Idris, on a road trip, pursued by a tenacious state trooper (Glenn Fleshler).What this “Twilight Zone” shares with Serling’s series, Peele said, is “a sense of simplicity” — a narrative arc of heightening revelations, “and then, at the end, the pattern is subverted or committed to even further.”Each episode also requires what he called “that Serling wink”: “We take ourselves seriously but never too seriously,” Peele said. “It can’t go so dark that it makes us want to curl up in a ball.” (This is one way that he believes “The Twilight Zone” will distinguish itself from “Black Mirror,” Netflix’s acclaimed anthology series about technological dystopias. Peele said he was a fan of that show, but “it goes darrrrrrk. Dark dark. As dark as anything I’ve ever seen — and I love that.”)There was also the matter of getting Peele to be narrator of the new show, to recite an eerie prologue over an adaptation of Marius Constant’s nerve-ruffling “Twilight Zone” theme, dress in a Serlingesque suit and appear unexpectedly on, say, a TV monitor or in a diner booth to deliver crucial context and moral accounting.Despite the urging of his fellow producers, Peele said he worried that his comedy résumé would disqualify him for the role. “My initial feeling was, won’t people be picturing, like, Puppy Dog Ice-T?” he said, referring to one of his “Key & Peele” characters. “Doesn’t that take the gravity out?”But eventually, Peele explained, this was a situation where he felt he had to set aside his ego and embrace the suggestions of his collaborators.“I didn’t want to overthink it,” Peele said. “I didn’t want to do an impression of Serling, but I did want to conjure his tone. You can’t just do it the exact way he did. I’ve got to be real. I’ve got to be myself.”Themes of double identity recur throughout Peele’s work and he’s been thinking about them since at least high school, when he decided he wanted to be a director and declared he would someday make his own version of “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.” (Looking at his own films now, Peele said that “Get Out” was his “Frankenstein” and “Us” was his “Jekyll and Hyde.”)“All my work is pointed at this idea of humanity’s dark side,” Peele added. “We have demons sewn into our DNA. Evolution has brought us to a place where we want to be good, for the most part. But we’ll never be all good. We’ll always have this other side.”When he turned his attention to the TV screen playing “Mirror Image,” Peele was fascinated by the strange but economical decision to set its action in a small bus station in upstate New York. He empathized with its protagonist, whose truthful complaints go largely unheeded, and relished a climactic scene in which she sees her double already sitting on the bus she is about to board, smiling back at her through the window.“That little knowing smirk is so terrifying,” he said, sounding half horrified and half delighted. “It’s one thing to see another you in existence — it’s another thing to see another you that is already aware that you exist.”At least two Jordan Peeles would seem to be required in the world to account for the volume and variety of work that he has generated recently. Or maybe his productivity is an act of defying his double, of making something before his counterpart can do it first — or before he shows up with more sinister intentions.“O.K., we can deal with this,” Peele said, now chuckling outright. “There’s innately something about a doppelgänger that suggests one of you must die. There’s only space for one.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe party wildly outperformed expectations, raising hopes for a big November.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistA special election this near to the November midterms isn’t solely or even primarily about who won and lost. It’s about which candidate — and thus which party — beat the spread. It’s a crystal ball with a glimpse of the future, beyond the battle at hand and the patch of the country in which it took place.And the vision presented by Ohio’s 12th District on Tuesday night should give Democrats considerable joy.True, the race was too close to call Wednesday morning, and the Republican, Troy Balderson, had a definite edge over the Democrat, Danny O’Connor, in the vote count. But even if O’Connor loses, Democrats will move on from this contest with formidable energy and every reason to believe that Donald Trump is vulnerable, that Republicans are spooked and that the Democratic Party is poised to pick up the 23 seats it needs to reclaim the House majority.This should have been a Republican cakewalk. The district hadn’t been represented by a Democrat in more than three decades. The Republican incumbent, whose retirement is why the special election was necessary, won in 2016 by more than 35 points. In that same year’s presidential election, Trump won the district by 11. And he and Republicans pulled out all the stops to help Balderson. The president swept into town for a big rally on Saturday night. Vice President Mike Pence made his own trip. And Republican groups from outside the district pumped millions into the race, hugely outspending their Democratic counterparts.Even so, Balderson seemed to be barely squeezing out a victory. It’s a terrible sign for Republicans, a promising one for Democrats and a fascinating, revelatory turn of events on a night when the country’s mood in general — and voters’ attitudes about Trump in particular — came into slightly sharper focus.Since his surprising election and the start of an administration with a metabolism and madness like none other, each special election and batch of primaries have provided a bit more information about what Americans make of it, whether they’re willing to put up with it and where the country and its political parties are headed. Tuesday night was another set of clues. Those clues came from Michigan, where the question, to be answered by the state’s Democratic gubernatorial primary, was just how potent the progressive left in the Democratic Party had grown. Two of the left’s brightest current stars, Bernie Sanders and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, campaigned in Michigan with Abdul El-Sayed, who aimed to be the first Muslim governor in America. They failed as he was soundly defeated by the choice of the party’s establishment, Gretchen Whitmer. The clues came from Missouri, where Cori Bush, competing in a Democratic congressional primary, also staged a challenge from the left, trying to usurp a Democratic incumbent in a St. Louis-based district. She too didn’t prevail.The clues came from Kansas, where Trump sought to demonstrate anew what he had in previous Republican primaries: the decisive power of his endorsement. He bestowed it upon the underdog, Kris Kobach, who had joined him in his wild, unsubstantiated claims of widespread voter fraud. On Wednesday morning, the vote count remained incomplete and Kobach held a tiny lead over Governor Jeff Colyer, the incumbent, in a race that was also too close to call.Still, it was the 12th District in Ohio that had the most relevance to November and will have the most resonance going forward, and several details of what happened there warrant special mention.Republicans threw their entire negative arsenal at O’Connor, blaring that he favored “amnesty for illegals,” wanted to abolish the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and was tight with Nancy Pelosi, their beloved bogeywoman. The Times’s Alexander Burns recently noted that when Pence stumped beside Balderson, he linked O’Connor to Pelosi no fewer than “five times in a roughly 20-minute speech.” And in a shockingly misogynistic ad, Republicans placed an image of O’Connor in a huddle of three supposedly nightmarish mascots of liberalism, all women: Pelosi, Elizabeth Warren and Hillary Clinton. O’Connor absorbed all of this and still turned the race into a nail-biter.Is the Republicans’ preferred playbook as effective as they need it to be? It’s only going to look more frayed and tired as the weeks zoom by.Balderson was a much better candidate than Rick Saccone, the Republican nominee in the special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th District, where Conor Lamb, the Democrat, staged his narrow upset last March. That made O’Connor’s task all the tougher and his performance all the more impressive.I’ve been around the country over the last nine months — Texas, North Carolina, California, Colorado — and know from my own eyes and ears that there are dozens of districts in which Democrats have a significantly better chance than they did in Ohio’s 12th to flip a seat. They’re well aware of that, and they’re plenty buoyed by it.A whole lot can transpire before November, especially with Trump raging around the White House and tweeting up his usual storm. Predictions are more dangerous than ever. But I can see the present clearly, and can safely say this:Trump’s tweet late Tuesday night, exulting in “a great victory” for Balderson and claiming it as a validation of his own political superpowers? Like so many of the president’s expectorations, it’s delusional. It’s self-infatuated hooey.And on the morning after Ohio, Democrats aren’t licking their wounds. They’re licking their chops.This article has been updated to reflect news developments.Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.   @FrankBruni • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEurope EditionBy Dan Levin(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Russia retaliates, migrants in limbo and celebrating Passover in Spain. Here’s the latest:• Russia hits back.The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American Consulate in St. Petersburg, above, as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have attributed to Moscow.Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets.The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal, who was attacked with her father, Sergei Skripal, “is no longer in critical condition.”_____• “Why am I here?” Two years after the E.U. and Turkey struck a deal to halt the flow of asylum seekers, thousands remain stranded on the Greek island of Lesbos.One of our reporters visited a holding camp on the island, above, where she found miserable conditions and growing despair among those unable to move on, yet unwilling to go home.Stuck in limbo, their plight reflects the enduring humanitarian toll of the migration crisis, which is expected to grow again as winter fades._____• Jeremy Corbyn, the British Labour Party’s most left-wing leader in decades, has galvanized supporters eager to get rid of the country’s Conservative government.But a mounting crisis over accusations of anti-Semitism has recharged a bitter argument about his leadership and forced many liberal British Jews to question whether they still have a political home in the party._____• It’s a date.North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27.They’ll get together in the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House, above, meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War.Mr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump, though no date has been set._____• In Denmark, breaking up is about to get … slower.A push to digitalize official services makes it easy for Danes to view public records and even get divorced online.Maybe too easy, at least in a country with one of Europe’s highest divorce rates.So instead of ending their marriages in a few clicks, couples with children will soon be legally required to wait three months — and get counseling. The change is a rare government acknowledgment that technological innovation can’t solve every societal problem.• The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions.• An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks.• Hacked: Data was stolen from 150 million users of the MyFitnessPal nutrition app, according to its owner, Under Armour. The security breach involved user names, email addresses and passwords.• The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors, ranging from microchips to 5G wireless.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will stand trial on influence-peddling charges, the latest in his series of mounting legal woes. [The New York Times]• Christopher Steele, the author of the notorious Trump dossier, provided a secret report to the F.B.I. asserting that a former Russian minister was murdered in Washington by enforcers hired by an oligarch close to Vladimir Putin. [BuzzFeed]• Robert Mercer, the billionaire Trump donor behind Cambridge Analytica, secretly volunteers as a police officer. But he’s not doing it to protect the public. Rather, the badge lets him carry a concealed gun anywhere in the U.S. [Bloomberg]• In the U.S., the Fox News host Laura Ingraham apologized for taunting a survivor of last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla., as at least four companies confirmed they would pull ads from her show. [The New York Times]• Protesters rallied in Ireland and Northern Ireland after two professional rugby players were acquitted of rape. [The Guardian]• Malala Yousafzai, the world’s youngest Nobel laureate, returned to her native Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there as a child by a Taliban attack in 2012. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.•Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick, delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño.• Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party.• Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette.• The Jewish holiday of Passover, celebrating liberation and rebirth, begins tonight. In an Opinion piece, a writer traveling through Europe explores the joy and sadness of observing this ancient tradition in Spain, a “land of Jewish ghosts.”• Last week we told you about Ata, a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now, Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad, and researchers have called the medical study unethical.Are you familiar with the term “March Madness”? Americans are awash in it, but for their colleagues abroad, here’s the short form.U.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday, setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage.The N.C.A.A. tournament, also known as the Big Dance, is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field teams in the top division, compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season, 68 teams move on to a knockout tournament.The first men’s tournament was held in 1939, and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s, stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players, coaches, fans and bookmakers.The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so, it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year, ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and $10.4 billion was wagered.)The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas, Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago, a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game.In the women’s tournament, Connecticut, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing.Matt Futterman contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy William NeumanIt has not been four months since Mayor Bill de Blasio’s inauguration, and already a group of eager politicians is maneuvering to take his place.The Bronx borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr., was the first to declare; he filed papers last month stating that he was a candidate for mayor.Last Tuesday, the Brooklyn borough president, Eric L. Adams, told a few dozen people assembled at a law office at MetroTech Center that he was raising money for a mayoral run.On Monday night, the comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, held a birthday fund-raiser at an Asian-themed restaurant in Chelsea — although he has yet to say openly that he is running.And the public advocate, Letitia James, who in removing herself from consideration as a candidate for lieutenant governor last week said that “the only job I want is right here in New York City,” has sent out invitations to a “spring gala” fund-raiser on May 10.All four have been making calls to potential donors, according to a person who reported receiving entreaties from each of them.And while the election is three and a half years away, the city’s electoral calculus has changed with term limits. All three citywide officeholders, the borough presidents and the majority of City Council members, are serving their final terms.“You have pretty much the entire leadership of the government switching over,” said Suri Kasirer, a political consultant.That also means that a host of politicians are thinking about what to run for next.“Three years goes quickly and everybody in this group is seasoned, so they know to get their name out and be very five-borough, and raise money in different places,” said the Manhattan borough president, Gale A. Brewer, who so far is watching from the sidelines.All four candidates are busy raising money with the hope of making a strong showing when candidates are required to make their first campaign finance report of the 2021 electoral cycle.They are all playing catch-up to Mr. Stringer, who retained $1.4 million from his last comptroller campaign, which he is permitted to transfer to his next run for office. Mr. Diaz had $430,000 remaining in his previous campaign account and Mr. Adams had $300,000. Ms. James had only $31,000 left that she can use for her next race.And while most or all of the candidates have told donors and supporters in private that they are running, in public they are more circumspect.Two people who attended Mr. Adams’s event last week said that he stated unequivocally that he was running for mayor. About 40 people were present at the meeting, at a law firm in MetroTech Center, in Brooklyn, among them the former governor Eliot Spitzer. There were cold cuts and sushi on a table but few people ate.The two people who were present, who asked not to be identified to discuss a private meeting, said that Mr. Adams displayed a bracket, like those used for college basketball tournaments, and said that instead of March Madness — the slogan used for the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament — this was going to be Mayoral Madness. The bracket included Mr. Adams, Mr. Stringer, Ms. James and Mr. Diaz, and Mr. Adams said that the contest would come down to a final showdown between him and Mr. Stringer.Mr. Adams then said that Mr. de Blasio had spent so much time in African-American communities when he first ran for mayor in 2013 that he had essentially “out-blacked” the race’s black candidate, William Thompson.Mr. Adams went on to say that in the 2021 race he was going to “out-white” Mr. Stringer, by winning over white constituencies. Mr. Adams and Ms. James are black. Mr. Stringer is white. Mr. Diaz is Hispanic. Mr. Adams explained that his past as a police officer gave him the experience to assure white voters that he would make public safety a priority.In an interview last week, Mr. Adams was asked about his comments.“I was being colorful,” he said, explaining that just as Mr. de Blasio pressed issues like stop and frisk that had an impact in black communities, he planned to take his message of public safety to white neighborhoods. “People look at a black candidate and they think he can’t go into the Baysides, Bay Ridges and Marine Parks, and I’m not going to be the candidate that can’t do that.”Mr. Adams said that other potential candidates “continue to play coy” with the public when it comes to their aspirations. But when asked whether he was running, he would not provide a simple yes or no. “I want to be extremely clear, I am pursuing running for mayor,” he said. “It’s different from a formal announcement.”Mr. Diaz, the only candidate who has filed papers with election authorities indicating that he is a candidate for mayor, was also reluctant to say explicitly that he was running.“It is very early,” Mr. Diaz said. “There’s no secret that I’m looking at it. I’m exploring it. I’m considering it.” Pressed, he said, “I’m raising money for the sole purpose of running for mayor.” Mr. Diaz has sent out invitations to a Yankees-themed birthday fund-raiser on May 3, encouraging supporters to commit to raising money for him, with those who can raise $25,000 designated as M.V.P.s.Mr. Stringer also refused to say what office he intended to run for next.“I’m building a political foundation for whatever comes next,” Mr. Stringer said. “I love public service. I want to continue serving this city. Part of that is building the financial infrastructure to be competitive in 2021.”Ms. James said that in the last few days she has held “a number of meetings with individuals” to discuss her possible next run for office. “I am examining my options for the future and so we are exploring the possibility of running for mayor in 2021,” she said.At least one potential candidate who has not filed papers is getting the attention of political insiders: Corey Johnson, the City Council speaker. Asked as he was about to be elected speaker if he saw himself taking the next step and running for mayor some day, Mr. Johnson said: “No. I never want to be mayor. No.”It took less than three weeks for him to soften that stance, saying, “You can never say never.”Follow William Neuman on Twitter: @willieneumanAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Zach SchonbrunEvery year, fans gripe when their teams don’t make the N.C.A.A. tournament, sometimes for good reason. If you are looking for snubs, start with the first four teams left out of March Madness: Baylor, Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Southern California. During the selection broadcast, Bruce Rasmussen, Creighton’s athletic director, who served as the selection committee’s chairman, confirmed that Davidson’s win over Rhode Island on Sunday knocked Notre Dame out of the tournament.Here’s a look at the top four snubs:The Bears lost four of their last five games and looked overmatched in a 13-point loss to West Virginia in the Big 12 Conference tournament quarterfinals. And while you could make a case for their potential — they beat Kansas and Texas Tech, as well as bubble teams Oklahoma and Texas — they finished with an RPI of 66, were 2-9 away from home, and played a weak nonconference schedule. For all these reasons, Baylor missed the tournament for the first time in five years.N.C.A.A. Men’s Tournament BracketIf only they had more time. Notre Dame looked like a sleeper last week in the A.C.C. tournament and a team that could make noise in the N.C.A.A. tournament. The key? Forward Bonzie Colson, the preseason A.C.C. player of the year, was back after missing 15 games. With him on the court, the Irish were 14-5, ranked as high as fifth in the nation. Unfortunately, without him, they lost to teams like Georgia Tech amid a seven-game losing streak. They finished 1-7 against ranked teams. Ultimately, the committee was not impressed enough with the Irish’s total résumé. Yes, they beat Gonzaga. And, yes, KenPom had them ranked 28th, ahead of eight other N.C.A.A. tournament teams. But the committee saw no quality wins outside the Bulldogs upset, and their strength of schedule was 166. “Of their 28 wins, all but four were against teams in the last two quadrants,” Rasmussen said, referring to the new terminology to better evaluate road and neutral-court wins. Despite boasting one of the most efficient offenses in the country, the Gaels will be playing in the N.I.T. again.This one will be tough to swallow: The Trojans had the highest R.P.I. (34) of any team that has missed the N.C.A.A. tournament since it expanded to 68 teams in 2011. They had 11 wins against the top two quadrants, and a strong strength of schedule. But the committee felt that they did not have enough wins against tournament-caliber teams, going 0-8 against Arizona, Arizona State, Oklahoma, Texas A&M, and U.C.L.A. As it happens, U.S.C., along with Louisville and Oklahoma State who were also snubbed, is embroiled in the F.B.I. probe into corruption among basketball programs. AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a look at the postponed vote in Britain’s Parliament on a Brexit deal, President Trump’s defense of two hush-money payments, and President Emmanuel Macron’s concessions to protesters.Prime Minister Theresa May is touring European capitals today in an effort to shore up support back home for her agreement on Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.Mrs. May has delayed a parliamentary vote on her compromise deal, acknowledging that it would have faced defeat “by a significant margin.” Parliament is to hold an emergency debate today on the postponement of the vote, and a spokesman for Mrs. May said lawmakers would get a chance to vote on the deal some time before Jan. 21.What’s at stake: Without an agreement, Britain would face a so-called cliff-edge Brexit, with banking, trade, travel and rules at the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland potentially changing overnight on March 29. But that’s not the only way things could go. We sketch out the possible scenarios, including a second Brexit referendum.The Daily: On today’s episode, our correspondents in London discuss frustrations in Britain.From Opinion: A writer for The Spectator, a British weekly magazine, has a request: “Pray for us.”Mr. Trump said on Monday that payments made to two women for their silence about alleged extramarital affairs with him were “a simple private transaction” and were not subject to campaign-finance laws.Federal prosecutors said last week that the payments during the 2016 presidential campaign constituted election-related spending and that Mr. Trump broke the law by directing his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, to make them.What’s next: Mr. Trump is effectively an unindicted co-conspirator in Mr. Cohen’s campaign-finance case, but the extent of his legal exposure and political liability turns on several factors, including whether a president can be charged with a crime.A contrite President Emmanuel Macron announced tax cuts and income increases for the struggling middle class and working poor on Monday, after weeks of violent protests around France.In a 13-minute televised mea culpa, Mr. Macron said the details of his relief steps would be announced today. One would be a monthly increase of 100 euros, or about $115, for workers earning the minimum wage.Side effects: Businesses sustained more than 10 billion euros in damages and lost sales during the protests, a figure that will probably grow.Watch: Our reporters were in Paris over the weekend with some of the protesters. In the past two years, the U.S. has dedicated hundreds of millions of dollars and dozens of law enforcement and military personnel to fighting the violent gangs that send ordinary Salvadorans fleeing.President Trump views MS-13 as a dangerous force in the U.S., but he has expressed skepticism about helping to root it out in El Salvador. He recently promised to pull American support from the region.Our journalists in San Salvador report on the conflicting U.S. positions.Background: In the 1980s, the Reagan administration supported a military-led government in El Salvador in a civil war against guerrillas that killed more than 70,000. Since then, the U.S. has tried to be more a law-enforcement partner than a military sponsor.About 250 million years ago, the Earth almost died.Our science columnist, Carl Zimmer, explains what is now understood about the world’s worst mass extinction — the sequence of events that followed tremendous volcanic eruptions at the end of the Permian Period. “In the oceans, 96 percent of all species became extinct” after carbon dioxide rushed into the atmosphere, he writes. “It’s harder to determine how many terrestrial species vanished, but the loss was comparable.”Defense of fossil fuels: At a U.N. conference in Poland on Monday, the U.S. representatives argued that it was unrealistic to demand a rapid retreat from coal, oil and gas. Overhaul of water regulations: The Trump administration is also expected to unveil a plan today that would weaken federal clean water rules.Marines are declared dead: The U.S. military took the step after five Marines disappeared when two aircraft crashed off Japan. Bodies have yet to be recovered.Google chief in Congress: Sundar Pichai is scheduled to testify today about concerns including that his company’s search algorithms are biased against conservatives. Here’s what to expect when he appears in the House beginning at 10 a.m. Eastern. Snapshot: Above, a surfer competing off the northern Spanish city of Getxo, near Bilbao, on Monday.New fears in tech: The detention of a Huawei executive has technology entrepreneurs in both China and the U.S. reconsidering their travel plans.An interstellar milestone: After an 11 billion-mile trip, the Voyager 2 spacecraft has become the second  machine to cross a boundary that divides our solar system from the rest of the galaxy, NASA announced on Monday.Marathon church service: A church in the Netherlands has been meeting nonstop for more than six weeks to protect an Armenian family from deportation. The Dutch police aren’t allowed to disrupt a service to make an arrest.Reply-all madness: An invitation to an annual potluck for a division at the Utah Department of Corrections was accidentally emailed to all 22,000 state government employees.Late-night comedy: Jimmy Fallon pitched in to help find a replacement for John Kelly, telling his audience: “If anyone here wants to be President Trump’s chief of staff, just raise your hand and the job is yours.”What we’re reading: This investigation from The Washington Post. “Early in my news career, I absorbed the commonplace message that reputable newspapers didn’t cover domestic homicides,” writes our briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell. “It was something about them being too common, too obvious, no deeper meaning. Well, that’s over.”Cook: Four-spice salmon fillets.Listen to: Times critics debate the best pop albums of 2018 — and wonder if albums will even matter next year.Watch: The “Deal or No Deal” revival. Or maybe don’t. The show encapsulates the paradox of the modern game-show model gig.Go to: Pali Aike, a 31-square-mile preserve teeming with wildlife that is one of the most obscure attractions on the new Route of Parks in Chile, a 1,740-mile wilderness trail unveiled this year. Smarter Living: The holiday parties, the late nights, the rich food, the drinks. Individually and together, they can knock your liver’s internal clock for a loop. So sure, stay up a little later, but try to keep within two hours of your normal bedtime. And reset the timekeeper with a morning walk.And here’s how to get the most from a health savings account.One of the streets of Paris that has been overtaken by violent demonstrations in the past month is the Boulevard Haussmann.Running through the city’s Eighth and Ninth Arrondissements, the boulevard is named for Georges-Eugène Haussmann, who defined the look of modern Paris.In the mid-19th century, Baron Haussmann began a project to redesign the French capital under the direction of Emperor Napoleon III.The baron was given immense power by the emperor, the nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte, and his plan cleared away the overcrowded neighborhoods of central Paris, which had become a breeding ground for disease and social unrest.The project, which also included new parks, sewerage and other infrastructure, turned the city into an enormous construction site from the 1850s to the 1870s.Met with increasing criticism, Baron Haussmann was dismissed in 1870 and died 21 years later. But his work wasn’t finished until 1927, when the boulevard that bears his name was completed.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford for the culture cues, Gabrielle Debinski for the travel idea and Kenneth R. Rosen and James K. Williamson for the sanity of Smarter Living. Chris Stanford himself wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Brexit debate in Britain.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Neighbor of Nebraska (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.• From the hundreds of thousands of books published every year, The Times compiles three lists to help you make sense of it all: 10 Best Books, 100 Notable Books and Times Critics’ Top Books.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Dwight GarnerThe cameras that Fred W. McDarrah carried — a boxy old Rolleicord, and later a battered 35-millimeter Nikon S2 — weren’t special. Nor was he, not in his own mind. He was a bit of a square, he admitted, and an unlikely chronicler of the bohemian world he saw coming into view in Greenwich Village in the mid-1950s.What McDarrah (1926-2007) had was a drive to document, in galleries and lofts and cafes and bars, the painters, musicians, critics, bookstore owners and Beat-era poets and writers he sensed were making a new world, one that would spark the counterculture of the 1960s. “I was a groupie at heart,” he wrote later. “I wanted to be part of the action. My camera was my diary, my ticket of admission, my way of remembering, preserving, proving that I had been there when it all happened.”McDarrah was the first staff photographer at The Village Voice, America’s Ur-alternative weekly, founded in 1955. He’d been roommates with Dan Wolf, one of the paper’s founders. Wolf had seen the kinetic photographs McDarrah was taking when he wasn’t at his day job in advertising on Madison Avenue.McDarrah would go on to work for The Voice for 50 years. I wrote frequently for the paper in the late ’80s and early ’90s, but I met him only once. He was as unpretentious as they come. His mailbox at The Voice was marked “McPhoto.”A new book that collects the best of his work, “Fred W. McDarrah: New York Scenes,” is one that some people, myself very much included, have been awaiting for a long time. Its publication will be accompanied by an exhibition of McDarrah’s photographs at the Steven Kasher Gallery in Manhattan, which will run from Sept. 20 through Nov. 3.It’s a book like few others. McDarrah had an inflamed curiosity, great feelers and an ability to capture liquid moments. He was in the right place at the right time, for sure, and caught a subculture in situ. He also had hustle. “When the chance came for him to make the most” of his moment, the historian Sean Wilentz writes in his excellent introduction, “he didn’t blow it.”It was grim news when The Village Voice closed for good last week. This book is a reminder that the paper had a visual style as well as a literary and journalistic one. That style was largely McDarrah’s: candid, skeptical, fun-loving, humane.Some of these photographs are well known; poster-size versions have been stuck with Fun-Tak to dorm room walls since forever. Exhibit A: A photograph of Bob Dylan on a park bench in the winter of 1965, squinting into the sun, his lips chapped, offering a salute. (This book includes a McDarrah photograph of Dylan singing with Karen Dalton at Cafe Wha? when he was 19 and had moved to New York two weeks earlier.) Exhibit B: Allen Ginsberg in what he called his “Uncle Sam hat” at an anti-Vietnam War rally in Central Park in 1966.Others you sense you’ve seen before and, lo, you have, like McDarrah’s photograph of Norman Mailer, Robert Lowell, Dwight Macdonald, Noam Chomsky and others setting off on the 1967 March on the Pentagon. This photo would later appear on the dust jacket of Mailer’s “Armies of the Night” (1968).Many others should be famous. These include desolate and haunted photographs of Robert F. Kennedy and Jack Kerouac, the geekiest picture anyone ever took of Leonard Cohen, and the poet Frank O’Hara looking impishly angelic, as if freshly fallen from a Michelangelo fresco, on closing night of the original Cedar Tavern in 1963.There’s a photograph of an unshaven Dustin Hoffman on West 11th Street, taken in March 1970. There’s a cop behind him. McDarrah didn’t snap this image because he was chasing celebrity. He took it because the Weathermen had blown up the building next door and Hoffman was out in the street. McDarrah knew about the bombing almost instantly because his son was in a nursery school three doors down. He’d been called to pick him up because of the blast.Women in the Beat era were often viewed, to quote the title of Joyce Johnson’s indelible memoir, as “Minor Characters.” They are not minor characters in McDarrah’s chronicle. He pays special attention to the women artists, Alice Neel, Lee Krasner, Eva Hesse and Lee Bontecou, among others.McDarrah was also an essential chronicler of the dawn of the gay rights era. He attended protests small and large. He was there the warm night in 1969 when the Stonewall Inn was raided by the police and protests ensued. Years later, at an event marking the 25th anniversary of Stonewall, McDarrah was asked why he took only 19 photos that evening. “Who knew?” he replied, to laughter in the room.“Though not gay,” Ginsberg wrote about McDarrah, “a hard laboring family man, he’s made photo records of gay parades for decades — sign of a real artist’s inquisitive sympathy, intelligent democracy.”There’s much more in this book, which moves as if in panorama from the late ’50s, when the Abstract Expressionists and New York School painters wore skinny ties and dark suits — yes, that’s Jasper Johns playing Skee-Ball in a bar in 1959 — through photographs of John Belushi and Jann Wenner at Studio 54 in 1977.You sense McDarrah’s heart wasn’t in these final images. There are fewer photographs from the late ’70s than from earlier eras; the pickings, for a learned and well-read observer, were slimmer.Two photographs from the late 1970s do eat into your retinas: images of Donald J. Trump and his father, the developer Fred Trump. With his dyed eyebrows and mustache, his acutely white teeth and his tuxedo, Fred Trump resembles a cut-rate magician who’s wandered into the Sherry-Netherland. The junior Trump throws a sleepy lothario’s glare, that of a soft lion too sated to eat you.There are other things to say about McDarrah. His street photographs rival those of Helen Levitt. He was a riveting working photojournalist. His 1967 photograph of a bloodied and chained LeRoi Jones (later known as Amiri Baraka), who had been beaten while in police custody during riots in Newark, is one for the ages.To the details in “Fred W. McDarrah: New York Scenes,” attention has been paid. Mr. Wilentz’s introduction is a seamless blend of the personal — his father, the Greenwich Village bookstore owner Eli Wilentz, was a friend and collaborator of McDarrah — and the historical. An afterword, credited only to McDarrah’s estate, fills in the grainier details of the photographer’s legacy.Best of all are this book’s captions, edited by Richard Slovak. They are compact but resonant. They take you places you don’t expect to go. Beneath a photograph of the New York Mayor John V. Lindsay during the 1968 sanitation strike, for example, we’re reminded that Memphis called a sanitation strike of its own, inspired by this one. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was in Memphis in support of it when he was assassinated.The captions nearly always tell you whose loft you are seeing — you want to be able to pinch and expand the details — what bar you’re in, who’s there, and when possible what later happened to the people in the image. There is a lot of circumambient madness that the captions help pin down. They’re models of the genre, history in capsule form.About his photographs from 1959, McDarrah wrote: “Everybody is young, proud, and beautiful; we are all frozen in time.” His subjects may be frozen yet they continue to impart all manner of frissons, comic, tragic and otherwise.“I wonder if you’re like me,” Denis Johnson wrote in “The Largesse of the Sea Maiden,” his posthumous book of stories, “if you collect and squirrel away in your soul certain odd moments when the Mystery winks at you.” McDarrah caught more of those moments than any photographer has a right to.Fred W. McDarrah: New York ScenesSept. 20 to Nov. 3 at the Steven Kasher Gallery, 515 West 26th Street, Manhattan; 212-966-3978, stevenkasher.com.The book is being published by Abrams on Sept. 25.slide showAdvertisementby Noel MurrayJan. 31, 2019Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for February, broken down by release date.Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for February, broken down by release date.[Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.][Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.]‘Nightflyers’ Season 1Starts streaming: February 1‘Nightflyers’ Season 1Starts streaming: February 1Given how many novels and short stories George R.R. Martin has written over the past 50 years — including the series that inspired HBO’s wildly popular “Game of Thrones” — it’s surprising that his work hasn’t been more widely mined by TV producers. The author wasn’t directly involved with the new adaptation of his 1980 novella “Nightflyers,” but the show still retains the heart and brain of what Martin has called his “haunted starship story.” “Nightflyers” follows a disparate band of deep-space colonists, fleeing a dying Earth while being driven to paranoia and madness by some mysterious entity. The show combines the atmospheric intergalactic terror of “Alien” with a good old-fashioned ghost story, and suggests that Martin’s back catalog might contain a gold mine of good TV material.Given how many novels and short stories George R.R. Martin has written over the past 50 years — including the series that inspired HBO’s wildly popular “Game of Thrones” — it’s surprising that his work hasn’t been more widely mined by TV producers. The author wasn’t directly involved with the new adaptation of his 1980 novella “Nightflyers,” but the show still retains the heart and brain of what Martin has called his “haunted starship story.” “Nightflyers” follows a disparate band of deep-space colonists, fleeing a dying Earth while being driven to paranoia and madness by some mysterious entity. The show combines the atmospheric intergalactic terror of “Alien” with a good old-fashioned ghost story, and suggests that Martin’s back catalog might contain a gold mine of good TV material.——‘Russian Doll’Starts streaming: February 1‘Russian Doll’Starts streaming: February 1The “Groundhog Day” premise of the eternally resetting day has itself — somewhat ironically — been done over and over in movies and TV shows. But nothing that’s come before is quite like “Russian Doll,” an innovative comedy co-created by Natasha Lyonne, Leslye Headland and Amy Poehler. Lyonne stars as Nadia, who finds herself continuously looping around to the same party, where something disastrous always happens. With every do-over, “Russian Doll” proves constantly delightful and surprising.The “Groundhog Day” premise of the eternally resetting day has itself — somewhat ironically — been done over and over in movies and TV shows. But nothing that’s come before is quite like “Russian Doll,” an innovative comedy co-created by Natasha Lyonne, Leslye Headland and Amy Poehler. Lyonne stars as Nadia, who finds herself continuously looping around to the same party, where something disastrous always happens. With every do-over, “Russian Doll” proves constantly delightful and surprising.——‘One Day at a Time’ Season 3Starts streaming: February 8‘One Day at a Time’ Season 3Starts streaming: February 8It feels like a little gift every time this critically acclaimed reimagining of Norman Lear’s long-running ’70s-and-’80s sitcom gets renewed. In season three, the blue-collar Cuban-American Alvarez family will continue to spar about hot-button political issues, while also dealing with big anxieties in their personal lives — involving career changes, romance and the persistent fear that one bad medical diagnosis or huge repair bill could upset everything they’ve been working toward.It feels like a little gift every time this critically acclaimed reimagining of Norman Lear’s long-running ’70s-and-’80s sitcom gets renewed. In season three, the blue-collar Cuban-American Alvarez family will continue to spar about hot-button political issues, while also dealing with big anxieties in their personal lives — involving career changes, romance and the persistent fear that one bad medical diagnosis or huge repair bill could upset everything they’ve been working toward.——‘Dirty John’ Season 1Starts streaming: February 14‘Dirty John’ Season 1Starts streaming: February 14One of the many recent TV series adapted from podcasts, the eight-episode first season of “Dirty John” is about John Meehan (played by Eric Bana), a handsome and magnetic con artist known for seducing women and then slowly destroying their lives. The already-in-the-works second season will tell an entirely new true story, but it’ll be hard to top the cast for the first, which includes Connie Britton as Debra Newell — one of John’s victims — and Juno Temple and Jean Smart as her concerned family members.One of the many recent TV series adapted from podcasts, the eight-episode first season of “Dirty John” is about John Meehan (played by Eric Bana), a handsome and magnetic con artist known for seducing women and then slowly destroying their lives. The already-in-the-works second season will tell an entirely new true story, but it’ll be hard to top the cast for the first, which includes Connie Britton as Debra Newell — one of John’s victims — and Juno Temple and Jean Smart as her concerned family members.——‘Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy’Starts streaming: February 15‘Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy’Starts streaming: February 15The writer-director-comedian Larry Charles is known for his willingness to take chances and push buttons, whether partnering with Larry David on “Seinfeld” and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” or helping Sacha Baron Cohen prank the unsuspecting in the movie “Borat.” Charles’ latest project is more serious: a four-part documentary series about comedians in some of the world’s most troubled regions, who risk reprimands or worse when they try to make people laugh.The writer-director-comedian Larry Charles is known for his willingness to take chances and push buttons, whether partnering with Larry David on “Seinfeld” and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” or helping Sacha Baron Cohen prank the unsuspecting in the movie “Borat.” Charles’ latest project is more serious: a four-part documentary series about comedians in some of the world’s most troubled regions, who risk reprimands or worse when they try to make people laugh.——‘The Umbrella Academy’Starts streaming: February 15‘The Umbrella Academy’Starts streaming: February 15The rock band My Chemical Romance’s frontman Gerard Way turned to writing comic books about a decade ago, combining his lifelong obsessions with science fiction and teen rebellion into the cult series “The Umbrella Academy.” The TV version of the comic has Ellen Page playing a non-super-powered sibling in a family of superheroes. When the clan’s ultra-rich and ambitious patriarch dies, his adopted children are reunited and have to put aside old grudges to help save the world.The rock band My Chemical Romance’s frontman Gerard Way turned to writing comic books about a decade ago, combining his lifelong obsessions with science fiction and teen rebellion into the cult series “The Umbrella Academy.” The TV version of the comic has Ellen Page playing a non-super-powered sibling in a family of superheroes. When the clan’s ultra-rich and ambitious patriarch dies, his adopted children are reunited and have to put aside old grudges to help save the world.——[Want more Australia coverage? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter here.][Want more Australia coverage? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter here.]‘Chef’s Table’ Season 6Starts streaming: February 22‘Chef’s Table’ Season 6Starts streaming: February 22Very few Netflix originals have run for as many seasons as “Chef’s Table” (granted, each season only features four to six episodes). Still, it’s impressive that its creator, David Gelb, has been able to draw such a steady audience with a cooking show that emphasizes visual beauty and psychological inquiry over, say, instructions on how to pan-sear a tuna steak. The chefs in the sixth season include the American Southern-cooking expert Sean Brock and Asma Khan, the London-based master of Indian food.Very few Netflix originals have run for as many seasons as “Chef’s Table” (granted, each season only features four to six episodes). Still, it’s impressive that its creator, David Gelb, has been able to draw such a steady audience with a cooking show that emphasizes visual beauty and psychological inquiry over, say, instructions on how to pan-sear a tuna steak. The chefs in the sixth season include the American Southern-cooking expert Sean Brock and Asma Khan, the London-based master of Indian food.——‘Suburra: Blood on Rome’ Season 2Starts streaming: February 22‘Suburra: Blood on Rome’ Season 2Starts streaming: February 22The intense, complex Italian-mafia saga “Suburra: Blood on Rome” returns for 10 more episodes, continuing to examine the interconnections of organized crime, political power and real estate in modern Italy. “Suburra” is a different kind of mob drama — one that functions less like an action thriller and more like a detailed procedural, aiming to show exactly how corruption can seep through every layer of society.The intense, complex Italian-mafia saga “Suburra: Blood on Rome” returns for 10 more episodes, continuing to examine the interconnections of organized crime, political power and real estate in modern Italy. “Suburra” is a different kind of mob drama — one that functions less like an action thriller and more like a detailed procedural, aiming to show exactly how corruption can seep through every layer of society.——Also of InterestAlso of Interest“Gotham” Season 4 (February 1), “Nailed It! Mexico” (February 8), “Dating Around” (February 14), “The Dragon Prince” Season 2 (February 15), “Homeland” Season 7 (February 15), “Rebellion” Season 2 (February 22), “Working Moms” (February 22), “The Big Family Cooking Showdown” Season 2 (February 22), “Tales by Light” Season 3 (February 22), “Van Helsing” Season 3 (February 25) and “Shadowhunters: The Mortal Instruments” Season 3 (February 26).“Gotham” Season 4 (February 1), “Nailed It! Mexico” (February 8), “Dating Around” (February 14), “The Dragon Prince” Season 2 (February 15), “Homeland” Season 7 (February 15), “Rebellion” Season 2 (February 22), “Working Moms” (February 22), “The Big Family Cooking Showdown” Season 2 (February 22), “Tales by Light” Season 3 (February 22), “Van Helsing” Season 3 (February 25) and “Shadowhunters: The Mortal Instruments” Season 3 (February 26).‘Velvet Buzzsaw’Starts streaming: February 1‘Velvet Buzzsaw’Starts streaming: February 1Part art-world satire, part serial-killer thriller, the “Nightcrawler” writer-director Dan Gilroy’s new movie “Velvet Buzzsaw” should delight some adventurous movie buffs … and probably irritate just as many. An all-star cast (including Jake Gyllenhaal, Rene Russo, Toni Collette, Daveed Diggs and John Malkovich) plays a close-knit group of Los Angeles visual artists, dealers, gallery managers and critics, who are wowed by the gruesome paintings discovered in the apartment of a mysterious dead man. The first half of “Velvet Buzzsaw” is a pretty standard-issue spoof of the rich and pretentious. Then the haunted artwork starts coming to life and a whole lot of truly original weirdness ensues.Part art-world satire, part serial-killer thriller, the “Nightcrawler” writer-director Dan Gilroy’s new movie “Velvet Buzzsaw” should delight some adventurous movie buffs … and probably irritate just as many. An all-star cast (including Jake Gyllenhaal, Rene Russo, Toni Collette, Daveed Diggs and John Malkovich) plays a close-knit group of Los Angeles visual artists, dealers, gallery managers and critics, who are wowed by the gruesome paintings discovered in the apartment of a mysterious dead man. The first half of “Velvet Buzzsaw” is a pretty standard-issue spoof of the rich and pretentious. Then the haunted artwork starts coming to life and a whole lot of truly original weirdness ensues.——‘High Flying Bird’Starts streaming: February 8‘High Flying Bird’Starts streaming: February 8Director Steven Soderbergh and screenwriter Tarell Alvin McCraney (who wrote the play that Barry Jenkins adapted into the movie “Moonlight”) take on the evolving business of professional sports in “High Flying Bird,” a crackling drama that raises questions about whether the power in athletics should rest with the players or the owners. André Holland plays a forward-thinking agent, working with and against various factions in a pro basketball league to get the best deal — within a 72-hour window — not just for his in-demand client, but for everyone else who plays the game. Soderbergh shot this movie on an iPhone, adding a documentary immediacy.Director Steven Soderbergh and screenwriter Tarell Alvin McCraney (who wrote the play that Barry Jenkins adapted into the movie “Moonlight”) take on the evolving business of professional sports in “High Flying Bird,” a crackling drama that raises questions about whether the power in athletics should rest with the players or the owners. André Holland plays a forward-thinking agent, working with and against various factions in a pro basketball league to get the best deal — within a 72-hour window — not just for his in-demand client, but for everyone else who plays the game. Soderbergh shot this movie on an iPhone, adding a documentary immediacy.——‘Get Out’Starts streaming: February 9‘Get Out’Starts streaming: February 9The writer-director Jordan Peele’s latest offbeat horror film “Us” is debuting in cinemas in March, so now’s a good time to revisit the comedian’s startling 2017 feature filmmaking debut: a clever low-budget thriller that went on to be one of the most financially successful and talked-about movies of that year. Daniel Kaluuya stars as a black photographer who agrees to meet his white girlfriend’s aggressively progressive parents, not realizing that the whole family has nefarious plans. While poking at the subtle racism of well-meaning liberals, Peele also delivers a picture filled with nail-biting suspense and pulse-pounding action.The writer-director Jordan Peele’s latest offbeat horror film “Us” is debuting in cinemas in March, so now’s a good time to revisit the comedian’s startling 2017 feature filmmaking debut: a clever low-budget thriller that went on to be one of the most financially successful and talked-about movies of that year. Daniel Kaluuya stars as a black photographer who agrees to meet his white girlfriend’s aggressively progressive parents, not realizing that the whole family has nefarious plans. While poking at the subtle racism of well-meaning liberals, Peele also delivers a picture filled with nail-biting suspense and pulse-pounding action.——‘Paddleton’Starts streaming: February 22‘Paddleton’Starts streaming: February 22The prolific filmmaker, TV producer and actor Mark Duplass both stars in and co-wrote the dramedy “Paddleton,” alongside the movie’s director Alex Lehmann. Duplass and Ray Romano play neighbors who gradually become chums, bonding over a game they invented. Like a lot of Duplass’s work, “Paddleton” starts out as a film about grown men who act like goofy kids, but it takes a turn when a terminal cancer diagnosis changes the nature of the friendship and inspires a road trip.The prolific filmmaker, TV producer and actor Mark Duplass both stars in and co-wrote the dramedy “Paddleton,” alongside the movie’s director Alex Lehmann. Duplass and Ray Romano play neighbors who gradually become chums, bonding over a game they invented. Like a lot of Duplass’s work, “Paddleton” starts out as a film about grown men who act like goofy kids, but it takes a turn when a terminal cancer diagnosis changes the nature of the friendship and inspires a road trip.——‘Isn’t It Romantic’Starts streaming: February 28‘Isn’t It Romantic’Starts streaming: February 28Romantic comedy clichés get savaged — mostly affectionately — in the colorful “Isn’t It Romantic,” which stars the comedian Rebel Wilson as a woman who gets conked on the head and wakes up in an idealized rom-com world. Her gritty urban neighborhood now sparkles. Her suddenly enormous apartment is filled with stylish furniture and clothes. She has a gay best friend. And the handsomest man she’s ever met (played by Liam Hemsworth) pursues her relentlessly. While kicking the genre around a bit, Wilson and the filmmakers still get to angle for a crowd-pleasing happy ending.Romantic comedy clichés get savaged — mostly affectionately — in the colorful “Isn’t It Romantic,” which stars the comedian Rebel Wilson as a woman who gets conked on the head and wakes up in an idealized rom-com world. Her gritty urban neighborhood now sparkles. Her suddenly enormous apartment is filled with stylish furniture and clothes. She has a gay best friend. And the handsomest man she’s ever met (played by Liam Hemsworth) pursues her relentlessly. While kicking the genre around a bit, Wilson and the filmmakers still get to angle for a crowd-pleasing happy ending.——Also of InterestAlso of Interest“Dear Ex” (February 1), “The Hunt for Red October” (February 1), “Jawbreaker” (February 1), “The Fate of the Furious” (February 2), “Chronicle” (February 13), “Paddington” (February 14), “Identity Thief” (February 15), “The Island” (February 15), “Liar Liar” (February 15), “Role Models” (February 15), “Yucatan” (February 15) “Firebrand” (February 22), “Paris Is Us” (February 22), “The Photographer of Mauthausen” (February 22), “The Other Boleyn Girl” (February 28) and “The Shallows” (February 28)“Dear Ex” (February 1), “The Hunt for Red October” (February 1), “Jawbreaker” (February 1), “The Fate of the Furious” (February 2), “Chronicle” (February 13), “Paddington” (February 14), “Identity Thief” (February 15), “The Island” (February 15), “Liar Liar” (February 15), “Role Models” (February 15), “Yucatan” (February 15) “Firebrand” (February 22), “Paris Is Us” (February 22), “The Photographer of Mauthausen” (February 22), “The Other Boleyn Girl” (February 28) and “The Shallows” (February 28)‘Ray Romano: Right Here, Around the Corner’Starts streaming: February 5‘Ray Romano: Right Here, Around the Corner’Starts streaming: February 5The “Everybody Loves Raymond” star Ray Romano has lately been showing off his skills as a dramatic actor, in movies like “The Big Sick” and “Paddleton” and TV shows like “Vinyl” and “Get Shorty.” He returns to his stand-up roots for his first special in 23 years, assembled from recordings of two Manhattan club gigs that Romano performed on the same night — showing the kind of hustle required of young comics when they’re just starting out. Pre-sitcom fame, Romano was widely acknowledged as one of the best in the biz, able with just a few lines to get audiences rolling at his pointed observations about everyday family life.The “Everybody Loves Raymond” star Ray Romano has lately been showing off his skills as a dramatic actor, in movies like “The Big Sick” and “Paddleton” and TV shows like “Vinyl” and “Get Shorty.” He returns to his stand-up roots for his first special in 23 years, assembled from recordings of two Manhattan club gigs that Romano performed on the same night — showing the kind of hustle required of young comics when they’re just starting out. Pre-sitcom fame, Romano was widely acknowledged as one of the best in the biz, able with just a few lines to get audiences rolling at his pointed observations about everyday family life.——Also of InterestAlso of Interest‘Ken Jeong: You Complete Me, Ho’ (February 14)‘Ken Jeong: You Complete Me, Ho’ (February 14)Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing.