AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NFL released the 65-game 2019 preseason schedule Tuesday, kicking off with the Hall of Fame game between the Denver Broncos and Atlanta Falcons on Aug. 1 in Canton, Ohio.After the Broncos-Falcons clash (NBC, 8 p.m. ET), there are four nationally televised games scheduled for Week 2 of the preseason and three more for Week 3.The Week 2 slate includes the Oakland Raiders at Arizona Cardinals (ESPN, 8 p.m.) on Thursday, Aug. 15, and the New Orleans Saints at Los Angeles Chargers (CBS, 4 p.m.) on Sunday, Aug. 18.Week 3 action includes the Jacksonville Jaguars at Miami Dolphins (FOX, 8 p.m.) on Thursday, Aug. 22, and the Pittsburgh Steelers at Tennessee Titans (NBC, 8 pm.) on Sunday, Aug. 25.The Dallas Cowboys will face the Los Angeles Rams in Honolulu on Aug. 17, the NFL's first preseason contest at Aloha Stadium since 1976.The Super Bowl LIII champion New England Patriots will square off against the New York Giants in the preseason finale for the 15th straight season.Specific dates and times for the remaining games will be released later this offseason.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFree agent linebacker Kyle Emanuel announced his retirement from the NFL on Thursday.Selected by the San Diego Chargers in the fifth round of the 2015 NFL draft, Emanuel spent four years with the franchise. He has played in 63 games for the franchise. A Nebraska native, he played collegiately at FCS powerhouse North Dakota State.He played out his four-year, $2.5 million rookie contract and had visited the Detroit Lions and had drawn other interest from other teams, according to multiple reports.In his Twitter post on Thursday, the 27-year-old Emanuel said injuries have played a part in his retirement."There is no one specific reason why I came to this decision, but as I contemplated it this offseason, something told me it was time to walk away," he wrote. "Although it wasn't the sole reason, the injuries have started to pile up and I had to take my long-term health into consideration. I have no idea what will come next which is scary and exciting at the same time but I can't wait to get started on whatever it is."Emanuel ends his career with 133 tackles (11 for loss), 10 quarterback hits, four sacks and two interceptions.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Improvements that an NFL and NFLPA study found in helmets didn't help Tom Brady.The six-time Super Bowl champion quarterback will have to discard his longtime brand as one of 11 helmets banned by the league and players' union for 2019.Brady was one of 32 players wearing helmets last season under a grace period that is now eliminated."If they were, at the end of the 2017 season, using prohibited helmeted, they could be grandfathered for 2018," said Dr. Kristy Arbogast, the union's appointed consultant to the testing."At end of 2018, we had those relatively few players, 32, who were wearing a red category model. It is now prohibited. Conversations are being held with those players. We tried to identify for every helmet in the red category a similar helmet, often from the same manufacturer, that had similar look and feel and is not prohibited."In its annual study, designed by NFL- and NFLPA-appointed biomechanical engineers, a subset of concussion-causing impacts sustained by NFL players during games is simulated to determine which helmets best reduced head impact severity. The study measures rotational velocity and acceleration to evaluate helmets.A poster both sides released Friday will be displayed at every team facility. It shows six of 11 helmets tested this year moved into the top-10 rated models.VICIS Zero1 graded best for the third straight year. Of the 34 overall helmets on the poster, it was followed by the Schutt F7 LTD and the Riddell SpeedFlex Precision Diamond.Also in the "green area" of strongly approved helmets was the brand new Xenith Shadow. In all, those four manufacturers had all 27 models at the top of the poster.The yellow section, in which helmets perform worse than the green group, had seven models."The thing that's really notable," Arbogast said, "is how receptive the players were to that info; 50% moved up the poster. They are eager to have the information that helps them make informed decisions about their equipment choice."Arbogast commended manufacturers for "innovating and introducing new helmets; the fact all new ones performed well is very encouraging."The poster includes gray areas within the green and yellow sectors. That indicates that less than 1% of NFL players are wearing that model, providing players with additional information. But Arbogast stresses that "doesn't mean they aren't safe or viable options."The 11 models in the red area, including Brady's, are banned.VICIS doubled the number of NFL players using Zero1 from 2017 to '18, with 135 players wearing it last season. Among them are league MVP Patrick Mahomes, Super Bowl MVP Julian Edelman, Russell Wilson, Doug Baldwin, Dee Ford and Golden Tate."My experience wearing the Zero1 has been exceptional," Wilson said. "The custom fit and wide field of vision have allowed me to perform at my best."VICIS has tweaked the helmet, reducing weight and cost while keeping the fundamental design."The helmet's deformable shell and unique ... layer have been shown to reduce impact forces more effectively than other helmets," said Dave Marver, the company's CEO."The NFL/NFLPA test ranks helmets using a sophisticated formula that considers several different impact velocities and locations, and the measurement of both linear and rotational forces. The Zero1 is top-ranked when taking all of those measurements into account, meaning it provides the best protection across the full range of impacts and situations players encounter in NFL play."It has since the 2017 survey.One potential concern in the study is that manufacturers could design helmets to rate highly, but they might not necessarily be the best performers on the field.Dr. Grant Goulet, vice president of product innovation at Xenith — which had five models in the green category — noted that "these independent tests, whether by the NFL and NFLPA or by Virginia Tech ... are incredibly important and providing value in this space.""We are very supportive and encouraged by the work the NFL and NFLPA are putting into this test, it's scientifically rigorous," Goulet added. "However, it could also be something of a cautionary tale that more helmets moved into that green group. I think there could be a propensity to be engineering helmets for these tests and metrics and that's what is bumping them up into this green group."What is important to emphasize is more of a holistic approach to designing the best gear for the athlete on the field."That, naturally, is what the entire process is about."The importance is this is a statistical analysis of on-field performances," said Dr. Jeffrey Crandall, the league's consultant to the independent testing. "What we see is statistically is double-digit concussion risk deduction as we go from yellow to green and from red to yellow. That has a significant impact on the risk of concussion."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Dallas Cowboys and franchise-tagged defensive end DeMarcus Lawrence agreed to a five-year contract, the team announced Friday.Multiple media outlets reported the deal is worth $105 million, with $65 million guaranteed and more money in the first year ($31.1 million) than any non-quarterback contract in NFL history, breaking the mark set by Khalil Mack last fall.According to The MMQB, the deal also sets new benchmarks among defensive players in percentage of total and full guarantees on a long-term contract. Mack, the NFL's highest-paid defender at $23.5 million annually, received $90 million guaranteed for injury and $60 million fully guaranteed at signing.Earlier Friday, NFL Network reported Lawrence and the Cowboys were making progress after negotiations were at an "impasse" last week.--He may or may not be on the trading block, but Arizona Cardinals quarterback Josh Rosen is planning to report for duty when the team's strength and conditioning program begins on Monday, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.According to Schefter's sources, the Cardinals have not actively shopped around Rosen with any teams ahead of the NFL draft that begins April 25, though they have been approached.Speculation around the league is that the Cardinals will take Oklahoma quarterback Kyler Murray with the first overall pick.--The Cleveland Browns signed quarterback Garrett Gilbert and safety Morgan Burnett, who was released by the Pittsburgh Steelers on Monday.Gilbert became available when the Alliance of American Football suspended operations earlier this week. The former sixth-round pick of the Los Angeles Rams had led the AAF with 2,152 passing yards and 13 touchdowns this season, playing for the Orlando Apollos.Burnett is expected to play safety after serving primarily as a dime linebacker for Pittsburgh last season.--A day after getting released by the Oakland Raiders, wideout Seth Roberts agreed to sign with the Baltimore Ravens on a one-year deal.Roberts, 28, was set to make $4.45 million this season with the Raiders. He caught 45 passes for 494 yards and two touchdowns in 15 games last season (seven starts).The Ravens also worked out former Packers and Seahawks running back Eddie Lacy, who was out of the league in 2018, according to Pro Football Talk.--The Raiders signed unrestricted free agent safety Jordan Richards.Richards played in 15 games, making a career-high 12 starts, for the Atlanta Falcons last season. He set a career high with 37 tackles.Oakland also signed defensive end Alex Barrett, who had two sacks for the San Diego Fleet in the AAF.--Minnesota Vikings cornerback Holton Hill has been suspended four games for violating the NFL policy on performance-enhancing substances.Hill, 22, had 36 tackles and one interception in 16 games (three starts) last season as an undrafted rookie. He reportedly failed a drug test at the 2018 NFL Combine and at least one drug test as a college player at Texas.The Vikings also signed two defensive backs from the AAF, safety Derron Smith and cornerback Duke Thomas of the San Antonio Commanders.--The San Francisco 49ers signed former AAF defensive end Damontre Moore to a one-year deal.Moore had seven sacks while starring for the San Diego Fleet, a half-sack back of the league lead.Moore, 26, has 10 career sacks in 54 games over parts of six NFL seasons.--Former Arizona Hotshots running back Jhurell Pressley is facing a two-game suspension by the NFL for "a pending issue," according to an NFL Network report.The report added Pressley is scheduled for workouts next week with two unnamed teams.Pressley led the AAF in rushing, with 96 carries for 431 yards and one touchdown.--The Chicago Bears will work out former AAF kickers Younghoe Koo and Nick Rose on Wednesday, according to the Chicago Tribune.Per the report, a third kicker could join the workout.Koo and Rose each went 14 of 14 on field-goal attempts with the AAF, although all of Koo's attempts were from 38 yards or closer. Rose hit one from 54 yards and another from 50.--The Pittsburgh Steelers signed former AAF teammates J.C. Hassanauer and Jack Tocho.Hassanauer played center for the Birmingham Iron, while Tocho was a defensive back on the same squad, notching six pass breakups and an interception.--The Carolina Panthers signed former AAF offensive linemen Parker Collins and Kitt O'Brien.Collins played center for the Atlanta Legends, while O'Brien was a guard for the Iron.--The Indianapolis Colts re-signed offensive tackle J'Marcus Webb.The 31-year-old missed most of last season after sustaining a hamstring injury in the season opener.--The New York Jets claimed wideout/return specialist Quadree Henderson off waivers from the Giants.Henderson, 22, returned nine punts for 68 yards (7.6-yard average) and five kickoffs for 112 yards (22.4 average) in five games last season. He did not catch a pass.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNew England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady will be wearing a different helmet for the 2019 season, although it will have nothing to do with finding a new team.Brady's model of helmet was banned from the NFL because it did not meet necessary safety standards in laboratory testing, according to ESPN. In total, 32 players from 2018 were wearing a helmet that no longer met NFL standards, the league announced Friday.Brady's model was actually deemed inadequate before last season, but players using substandard models were given a one-year grace period to make a change.The NFL and the NFL players Association announced 11 new helmets that were added to the approved equipment list. There were no additions to the banned list this time around.Team equipment managers will be subject to discipline if they facilitate the use of a banned helmet, or know of a player using one, according to ESPN.The NFL and the NFL Players Association have been putting helmets through new testing standards since 2015. The tests, conducted in Canada, include crash test dummies outfitted with helmets that are subjected to various impacts to record how much force is transferred.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersOhio State quarterback Dwayne Haskins' name was notably absent when the league listed the 23 players who will attend the NFL Draft in Nashville later this month.Haskins has not commented on his decision to forego the festivities, but the revelation follows speculation this week that his draft stock is slipping.Peter King wrote in Monday's "Football Morning in America" column that the former Buckeyes star "could plummet" and might be the fourth quarterback off the board after Heisman Trophy winner Kyler Murray of Oklahoma, Missouri's Drew Lock and Duke's Daniel Jones.Murray, Lock and Jones will be in attendance when the draft kicks off on April 25. So will Ohio State pass rusher Nick Bosa, a potential No. 1 overall pick along with Murray.Haskins completed 70 percent of his passes for 4,831 yards with 50 touchdowns and eight interceptions in 14 starts last season.It's not uncommon for top players to skip the green room and attend draft parties at home with friends and family. The last two No. 1 overall selections -- Baker Mayfield in 2018 and Myles Garrett in 2017 -- opted not to attend the draft.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressASHBURN, Va. — Reuben Foster has been fined two game checks and reinstated to the Washington Redskins' active roster after an NFL investigation into an incident of domestic violence found he did not violate the league's personal conduct policy.The league announced Foster's fine for two games this season and his new status Friday. Foster will be allowed to participate in all team activities, which includes Washington's offseason program that begins next week.Foster avoided being suspended in the aftermath of a domestic violence charge from November, which triggered a review based on his previous violations of league policies. Prosecutors in Tampa, Florida, decided in January not to pursue a domestic violence case against the 25-year-old, dismissing the first-degree misdemeanor battery charge."Everyone in this league is held to a higher standard," Redskins President Bruce Allen said. "Reuben understands that his past actions have led a lot of people to doubt him, and he has committed to doing the work necessary to earn the trust of his teammates, our great fans, and the NFL."Foster was arrested at the San Francisco 49ers' hotel in Tampa in November and jailed overnight following an incident involving the second-year linebacker and a companion police identified as the same woman who said Foster hit her in February. The woman later recanted the earlier allegations.The 49ers released Foster, and the Redskins claimed him off waivers but acknowledged he might never play for them. He was placed on the Commissioner Exempt List after Washington added him and finished the season on it.Foster is now cleared to return and play his first game since October."I am grateful to the Washington Redskins and the NFL for giving me this second chance," Foster said. "I accept the NFL's decision and want to say that I am truly sorry for my past actions and the people who may have been hurt by them."The league says Foster acknowledged responsibility for his actions and has committed to a comprehensive accountability plan developed in conjunction with the NFLPA and the Redskins to avoid future incidents. Allen said the plan includes counseling, a living arrangement, weekly meetings with the team's player engagement director and chaplain, and some community service."We have been very clear with Reuben that his past does not have to determine his future — but the responsibility is squarely on him to change," Allen said. "Reuben must fully adhere to the plan we have developed for him. Reuben knows that we simply will not tolerate any future conduct that is detrimental to the Washington Redskins organization or to the NFL."The league said it advised Foster that any future incidents will likely result in more substantial discipline. Foster has so far played 16 regular-season games for San Francisco after being a first-round pick in the 2017 draft."Going forward, I will follow the plan outlined for me and work hard to earn back the trust of my teammates, the NFL, NFL fans and the community," Foster said. "I know that my success is all up to me, and I am committed to not letting you down."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFormer Arizona Hotshots running back Jhurell Pressley is facing a two-game suspension by the NFL for "a pending issue," according to a report by the NFL Network's Ian Rapoport.Rapoport added that Pressley is scheduled for workouts next week with two unnamed teams.In eight weeks of action in the AAF, Pressley led the league in rushing, with 96 carries for 431 yards and one touchdown.He entered the NFL in 2016 as an undrafted free agent out of New Mexico and signed with the Minnesota Vikings. He had stints with the Green Bay Packers, Atlanta Falcons, Jacksonville Jaguars and New York Giants before joining the AAF.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSo there they were, 15 men ready to launch the 10 charter teams of the National Football League in 1920. They gathered in Ralph Hay's car showroom in Canton, Ohio , and got down to business.Except for one problem: There weren't enough chairs for everyone.A few of the future owners of NFL franchises instead sat on the running boards of the modest Hupmobile in Hay's dealership. And when they were ready to sign the papers to establish the league, they leaned on the hood of the car to finish up.While the fate of that actual Hupmobile — some have compared the quality of that brand of automobile to the Nash Rambler — isn't known, another vehicle of that model has become something of a mascot, if you will, for the Pro Football Hall of Fame."It serves two purposes," said Joe Horrigan, the executive director of the hall. "We've had it displayed as a temporary exhibit for a couple of years, so it was the first thing visitors saw when they entered the Hall of Fame. We'd have a video story with it explaining why Canton is the site of the hall."Also it's there for the first play of the induction weekend; we do a symbolic start," he added. "We'll have a human chain of kids from underserved neighborhoods line the street from downtown Canton and they pass a football the 2 1-2 miles to the steps of the Hall of Fame. Later (in the week) it starts the parade with the Hall of Famers (on induction day). It's like the grand master of the parade."The Hupmobile has had, among others, Hall of Fame President/CEO David Baker and Hall of Famers Ron Yary and Paul Krause as passengers.The car makes its home these days at the Canton Classic Car Museum. There simply wasn't enough room at the hall; it also took an hour to get it in and out of the doors. Horrigan said there was no way they were going to store it with other artifacts that aren't always on display to the public. So the "Hup" headed to the museum, whose director originally had helped the hall find the car in upstate New York to purchase it.Gary Hussar of the museum is the current "cartaker.""I am the keeper of the keys," he said with a laugh, looking respectfully at the red bodywork and impressive grille."It only goes on the streets, no highway."During the NFL owners meetings in Phoenix, he gave a rundown of the memorable vehicle which features:—a convertible top that opens and closes by hand;—no side windows, making it a touring car;—leather seats;—a three-speed transmission;—windshield wipers operated by a vacuum pump;—old-fashioned brakes, as in very old, with no hydraulics."But it stops well," Hussar explained, noting the car's max speed is 35 mph."The engine has been restored," Hussar added. "The electrics have been upgraded; it didn't have a fuel pump so an electronic fuel pump was added."Asked the biggest challenge driving the Hupmobile, Hussar smiled widely and mentioned he's in charge of driving it into its display areas."It's 67-inches wide," Hussar said. "And the doors are 68 inches."Yet there's not a scratch on this old classic.It's very likely the Hup will have a significant role in the Centennial Celebration the Hall of Fame is planning in September 2020. Maybe someone might even sit on the running boards.___More AP NFL100: https://www.apnews.com/NFLAt100AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersA day after reports that he will have shoulder surgery to fix a torn labrum, Dallas Cowboys defensive end DeMarcus Lawrence confirmed Monday he expects to miss the preseason while recovering in hopes of playing in Week 1.Fresh off reaching a five-year deal to remain in Dallas, Lawrence said on The Rich Eisen Show that he will undergo surgery on Wednesday after putting off the procedure while he sorted out his contract, reportedly worth $105 million.Lawrence, 26, played through the injury in the 2018 season and led the Cowboys with 10.5 sacks. The two-time Pro Bowler has 25 sacks over the past two seasons, with no other Cowboy recording double digits over the same span.In five seasons in Dallas, Lawrence has a combined 34 sacks and 200 tackles in 64 games (47 starts). The Cowboys selected the Boise State product in the second round of the 2014 NFL Draft.--The Kansas City Chiefs have reached agreement with linebacker Jeremiah Attaochu, according to the sports agency SportsTrust that represents the 26-year-old.Attaochu played his first four NFL seasons (2014-17) with the Chargers -- three in San Diego, one in Los Angeles -- so he is mighty familiar with the AFC West. He had 10 sacks in 38 games (13 starts) with the Chargers. Attaochu was originally picked in the second round of the 2014 NFL Draft by the Chargers.He signed with the San Francisco 49ers as a free agent in March 2018 but didn't make the team and was released. The New York Jets picked up Attaochu two days later and he had two sacks in 11 games.--The Arizona Cardinals re-signed defensive tackle Rodney Gunter to a one-year contract, the team announced.Gunter reportedly made a free-agent visit to the Green Bay Packers last week. The 27-year-old Gunter established career highs of 44 tackles and 4.5 sacks last year in his fourth season with the Cardinals. He has 95 tackles and eight sacks in 64 career games (25 starts).The Cardinals also announced that they signed two offensive linemen who played for the recently disbanded Alliance of American Football: Andrew Lauderdale (Arizona Hotshots) and Jeremiah Poutasi (Salt Lake City Stallions).--The Carolina Panthers announced the signing of five players, highlighted by former Philadelphia Eagles defensive tackle Destiny Vaeao and four others with experience in the now-suspended Alliance of American Football.Vaeao, 25, has played parts of three seasons with the Eagles since signing as an undrafted free agent out of Washington State in 2016. He was cut by the Eagles last October and was signed to the New York Jets practice squad the following month, but never saw regular-season action.In addition, the Panthers added four others who played in the AAF. The group includes Rashad Ross, 29, who caught 36 passes for 583 yards (16.2 yards per catch) and a league-best seven touchdowns for the Arizona Hotshots. His signing initially was reported on Thursday.--The Miami Dolphins have reached a one-year deal with former Cleveland Browns wide receiver Ricardo Louis, according to multiple reports.A fourth-round pick by the Browns in 2016, the 6-foot-2, 215-pound Louis missed all of last season with a neck injury that he had surgically repaired before training camp.The two seasons prior, Louis appeared in all 32 games with 12 starts, catching 45 passes for 562 yards. He also averaged 18.2 yards on nine kickoff returns as a rookie after running a 4.43-second 40-yard dash at the Combine.--Former rugby player Christian Wade has been allocated to the Buffalo Bills as part of the NFL's International Player Pathway Program, the team announced.The 5-foot-8, 190-pound Wade was a highly decorated rugby star in the United Kingdom, having played for the national team at the U16, U18 and U20 levels, as well as making the British and Irish Lions squad. He retired from the rugby union last year to pursue playing in the NFL.Wade's 82 tries (touchdowns) in Premiership Rugby, mostly as a ballcarrier, is third all-time and he has been designated as a running back with the Bills.Wade, 27, is one of seven international athletes from five countries who have been training in Florida with the goal of landing one of four placements among AFC East teams this offseason. He participated in a pro day last week, where he was timed at 4.53 seconds in the 40-yard dash.The four clubs will be allowed to carry an extra player (91 total) during training camp and, should the player not make the final roster, will also receive an extra practice squad spot for the allotted player. However, those placed on the practice squad with the international player exemption will be ineligible to be activated during the season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Just as he had the true touch when he threw passes, set records and won two Super Bowls, Peyton Manning has the right approach when looking at some of the NFL's greatest moments.ESPN, NFL Films and the league itself clearly felt that way.Manning, a lock for the Pro Football Hall of Fame when he becomes eligible in 2021, is hosting and serving as an executive producer for "Peyton's Places," a five-part, 30-episode series celebrating the NFL's 100th season. The show debuts on ESPN+ in July, with ESPN and ABC airing special compilations.For the quarterback, it was a labor of love, a journey into pro football's past that was educational, humorous and heartfelt."NFL Films has been great throughout this and they approached me about doing it to tell the story of the past 100 years," Manning says. "They certainly had a template and blueprint they wanted to tell, and we had certain people we wanted to talk to and visit and have conversations about how football got started."So Manning dived all the way back to Ralph Hay's Hupmobile showroom in Canton, Ohio. He spent time with members of the undefeated 1972 Dolphins; rewatched Super Bowl 3 with Joe Namath; discussed the Immaculate Reception with Steelers and Raiders to get the Pittsburgh and Oakland viewpoints; and discovered intriguing connections to the NFL for Richard Nixon, Jay Leno and Elvis."We got to go down memory lane," Manning says. "I have always loved the history of the game and I have learned a lot during this journey, and spent some time with some of my favorite players and contemporaries of my dad (former Saints star quarterback Archie Manning) and guys he looked up to."NFL Films has all this great archives of (Bears founder) George Halas talking about being in Ralph Hay's Hupmobile showroom, (Giants owner) Wellington Mara talking about how Vince Lombardi wanted him to take Polaroids and throw them down to the field when Vince was coaching with the Giants. To maybe re-enact it or kind of tell that story, it's kind of why I signed up for it."Along the way, Manning channeled his inner comedian, as displayed in TV commercials and as host of "Saturday Night Live."A big fan of Elvis Presley, Manning visited Graceland and "may or may not" have dressed up in an Elvis costume. He did discover that Presley staged impromptu games at local parks and was such a die-hard NFL fan he had three television sets on hand so he could watch as much football as possible."He got the idea from Lyndon Baines Johnson, who had three TVs so he could watch the news and political news coverage," Manning explains.Manning and Cris Carter also tried to replicate a stunt the New York Giants performed at the O'Keeffe Radiator Building in Manhattan — now the American Radiator Building. In 1926, the Giants' Lynn Bomar threw a ball to the ground from 324 feet up on the 23-story building, and Hinkey Haines caught it."Back in the '20s, the forward pass was like a circus act," Manning says. "When you were in the red zone and threw a pass into the end zone and it was incomplete, the other team got the ball; that was news to me. Clearly, teams didn't want to throw it."But to get some buzz and interest with the team not drawing well, the Giants did this publicity stunt and had (Bomar) throw a pass off the building. So I threw a pass down to Cris Carter at the same spot and he caught it. It was pretty neat."Also neat, no doubt, was having Manning service motorist's cars at the Vince Lombardi Travel Plaza on the New Jersey Turnpike. Manning dressed up as an attendant and "would give them a lecture or seminar on Vince Lombardi" while they were gassing up. The customers were given $10 off their bill if they could correctly answer questions about Lombardi.Paying homage to one of the NFL's great QBs, Sammy Baugh, who also played safety and was an All-Pro punter, Manning had Deion Sanders "try to teach me" to play defensive back. "That provided some challenges," Manning says with a chuckle.He visited with Jay Leno, a renowned classic car collector, to discuss the Hupmobile, an auto on which several future NFL franchise owners sat (on the running boards) "drinking prohibition beer" as the league was formed."I hope people who love football will find it entertaining," he says. "I certainly have not been afraid to make fun of myself."The fun of the series is accompanied by a reverence for the history of his sport. Such highlights as sitting with Roger Staubach and watching the long pass to Drew Pearson that spawned the "Hail Mary" description of such plays. Or chatting with Jim Brown about his career — in football and lacrosse and acting. Or researching the role of Bert Bell, the league's second commissioner who created the draft, scheduled games for Sundays — college football, more popular in the those days, owned Saturdays — and insisted on blackouts when television became a factor."Bert Bell made a bad investment, putting his money in a pro football team, guys in leather helmets running into each other," Manning says with a sarcastic laugh. "Bert Bell was a pioneer."Bell and Nixon likely wouldn't have gotten along. Nixon, as Manning discovered, was so annoyed he couldn't watch the Redskins' home games from the White House during his 1969-74 administration that he asked NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle to lift the blackouts."Rozelle refused, saying it would hurt attendance," Manning says. "So, basically, Nixon got Congress to pass a law to end the blackouts. He called it one of the greatest achievements of his administration, and that shows you how important it was to people who wanted to watch their teams. And still is."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersOklahoma quarterback Kyler Murray will be in Nashville on April 25 for the first round of the NFL draft. Where he goes from there remains to be seen.Murray is one of 23 prospects who plan to attend the draft later this month, the NFL announced Tuesday. He stands a chance to be one of the top picks, if not the No. 1 overall selection, after passing for 4,361 yards, 42 touchdowns and seven interceptions in 2018.Quarterbacks Daniel Jones of Duke and Drew Lock of Missouri also plan to be at the draft, while another top quarterback, Dwayne Haskins of Ohio State, will not be there. The other 20 players include six defensive linemen, four offensive linemen, three linebackers, two defensive backs, two wide receivers, two tight ends and a running back.Murray reportedly headed to Phoenix on Tuesday for another meeting with the Arizona Cardinals, who hold the No. 1 overall draft pick.--The NFL and NFL Players Association announced they will take part in regularly scheduled meetings to discuss a new collective bargaining agreement.The NFL and NFLPA issued the following statement: "Today, the members of the NFL's Management Council and the NFLPA's Executive Committee met to discuss negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement. The League and the Union have committed to meet regularly in the coming months, which will involve staff, NFL leadership, members of the NFLPA Executive Committee and Player Representation."The league and its players most recently agreed upon a collective bargaining agreement in 2011. The deal, which was reached after a player lockout, runs through the end of the 2020 season. Both sides hope that starting negotiations early may help to avoid a work stoppage after the end of next season.--The New England Patriots and kicker Stephen Gostkowski agreed to a two-year contract, ESPN reported.Gostkowski, 35, has been the club's kicker since 2006. He replaced Adam Vinatieri, who had departed to the Indianapolis Colts as a free agent.Gostkowski, a four-time Pro Bowl selection, has made 367 of 420 field-goal attempts during 13 seasons with New England. He was 27 of 32 last season.--The NFL released the 65-game 2019 preseason schedule, kicking off with the Hall of Fame game between the Denver Broncos and Atlanta Falcons on Aug. 1 in Canton, Ohio.Other highlights include the Dallas Cowboys facing the Los Angeles Rams in Honolulu on Aug. 17, the NFL's first preseason contest at Aloha Stadium since 1976.The Super Bowl LIII champion New England Patriots will square off against the New York Giants in the preseason finale for the 15th straight season.--The Atlanta Falcons signed veteran defensive end Adrian Clayborn to a one-year deal, the team announced. Official terms were not disclosed, but multiple outlets reported that he could earn up to $4 million with incentives.Clayborn, who played for the Falcons from 2015-17, appeared in 14 games for the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots last season and tallied 2.5 sacks.Clayborn, 30, has registered 32.5 career sacks and 90 quarterback hits in 95 games (51 starts) with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Falcons and Patriots.--Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers said in an interview with ESPN Milwaukee that he "lost vision" after sustaining a concussion in the final game of last season.Rodgers also went into detail about the knee injury he sustained in Week 1 and then aggravated in Week 5. Rodgers left the Week 1 game against the Chicago Bears but returned to engineer the 20-point comeback victory."I had a tibial plateau fracture and obviously an MCL sprain," Rodgers told ESPN, "so that was very painful. If you watch the hit back, just my two bones here that come together on the outside just kind of made an indent fracture. Very painful."--The Philadelphia Eagles announced the signing of three former Alliance of American Football players to one-year contracts.Quarterback Luis Perez and wide receivers Charles Johnson and Greg Ward became available when the AAF ceased operations last week, just eight weeks into its inaugural season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Rugby internationals from two codes, Australian Valentine Holmes and England's Christian Wade, have been added to the practice squads of the New York Jets and Buffalo Bills as part of the NFL's international player pathway program.Australian rugby league international Holmes, a prolific try-scorer for the Cronulla Sharks, ripped up his contract with his club at the end of last season to pursue his dream of playing in the NFL.The 23-year-old has been listed as a running back/wide receiver/kick returner and will be hoping to follow in the footsteps of compatriot Jarryd Hayne, who suited up in eight regular season games for the San Francisco 49ers in 2015.The pacy 27-year-old Wade played one rugby union international on the wing for England in 2013 after building a reputation as one of the best finishers in the game. He is projected to play at running back, the Bills said. Both players will be the 11th man on their teams' practice squads, and 91st on the roster overall, and be retained at least through to the end of their pre-season training camps.Four AFC teams will carry an extra player on their squads this year under the program, which aims to provide hopefuls from around the world to "compete at NFL level, improve their skills, and ultimately earn a spot on an NFL roster".The Miami Dolphins have taken on Brazilian defensive tackle Durval Neto, while German tight end Jakob Johnson, who played at the University of Tennessee, joins the New England Patriots. (Reporting by Nick Mulvenney in Sydney, editing by Greg Stutchbury)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersA day after ESPN aired an interview with former Green Bay Packers coach Mike McCarthy discussing how he was dismissed by the team last December, an explosive report looked at the complicated and disastrous relationship between McCarthy and quarterback Aaron Rodgers and how it impacted the team.The lengthy Bleacher Report story, published Thursday, concluded that the coach-quarterback duo had a frosty relationship since McCarthy's tenure began in 2006. That was the year after McCarthy, previously offensive coordinator for the San Francisco 49ers, favored Utah's Alex Smith over Cal's Rodgers with the No. 1 overall pick of the 2005 NFL Draft."Aaron's always had a chip on his shoulder with Mike," said Ryan Grant, a Packers running back from 2007-12. "The guy who ended up becoming your coach passed on you when he had a chance. Aaron was upset that Mike passed on him -- that Mike actually verbally said that Alex Smith was a better quarterback."Several players and coaches were quizzed over the complicated relationship in trying to explain why the Packers never turned into a New England Patriots-like dynasty. Allegations included McCarthy missing team meetings to have massages in his office, ex-general manager Ted Thompson falling asleep in meetings and Rodgers routinely changing play calls.--Cornerback Keith Reaser became the first player from the Alliance of American Football to move to an NFL team, signing with the Kansas City Chiefs, according to multiple reports.The AAF announced earlier Thursday that league players now could sign with NFL teams. The AAF played eight of its 10 scheduled weeks of the regular season.Reaser, who played for the Orlando Apollos, was a fifth-round pick of the San Francisco 49ers in 2014. In three-plus seasons with the 49ers, he played in 29 games, recording 34 tackles. He also played one game for the Chiefs in 2017, making four tackles and one sack, but was placed on the waived-injured list in 2018.--De'Vante Bausby, who tied for the AAF lead with four interceptions, signed with the Denver Broncos, according to multiple media reports. He played for the San Antonio Commanders in the AAF.Bausby, 26, appeared in four games with the Chicago Bears in 2016 and six games (one start) with the Philadelphia Eagles last year. He has 26 career NFL tackles.--The Carolina Panthers also reportedly signed an AAF player, adding former Arizona State wide receiver Rashad Ross, who had been playing for the Arizona Hotshots.ESPN's Adam Schefter reported that the 29-year-old Ross, who caught 36 passes for 583 yards (16.2 yards per catch) and a league-best seven touchdowns, will be a candidate to win the team's final receiver roster spot.Ross spent parts of three NFL seasons with the Chicago Bears and Washington Redskins, last playing a game in 2016 with Washington. He has never caught an NFL pass but has returned 34 kickoffs in his career, including one for a touchdown in 2015.--The Arizona Cardinals hosted top defensive line draft candidates Nick Bosa and Quinnen Williams, NFL Network reported.Bosa met with Cardinals brass last week in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and his visit to the team facility Thursday had been reported earlier this week. Each team may bring 30 players to its facilities for a visit, which cannot include a workout.Bosa, a defensive end, is considered the top defensive player -- if not No. 1 overall -- in the draft and Williams the top interior defensive lineman. The Cardinals are being almost universally predicted to take former Oklahoma quarterback Kyler Murray with the first pick of the draft later this month.--The Oakland Raiders released wide receiver Seth Roberts, the team announced.The move comes a day after the Raiders signed wide receiver Ryan Grant. The Raiders have also added Antonio Brown, Tyrell Williams and J.J. Nelson to their receiving corps.Roberts, 28, was set to make $4.45 million this season. He caught 45 passes for 494 yards and two touchdowns last season for Oakland. Roberts has 158 receptions and 13 touchdowns for his career, all with the Raiders.--Free agent linebacker Kyle Emanuel announced his retirement from the NFL in a Twitter post.Selected by the San Diego Chargers in the fifth round of the 2015 NFL Draft, Emanuel spent four years with the franchise. He appeared in 63 games for the Chargers. A Nebraska native, he played at FCS powerhouse North Dakota State.He played out his four-year, $2.5 million rookie contract and had visited the Detroit Lions and had drawn other interest from other teams, according to multiple reports. Emanuel ends his career with 147 tackles (11 for loss), 10 quarterback hits, four sacks and two interceptions.--Cincinnati Bengals running back Mark Walton surrendered to police in Florida, marking his third arrest of 2019.The Miami Herald reported that Walton was arrested on felony charges of carrying a concealed weapon, along with marijuana possession and reckless driving in connection with an incident that occurred March 12 in North Miami-Dade.On Feb. 16, he was arrested and charged with misdemeanor battery in Florida after what police reportedly said stemmed from an argument he had with a couple at his condominium complex over his car blocking the entrance to a parking garage. He also was arrested on a misdemeanor marijuana possession charge in January and is awaiting trial.--The New York Jets confirmed they will play the 2019 season and beyond with new uniforms, helmets and logos.The team revealed the new look on its Twitter account, marking the first uniform change for the franchise since 1998, calling it the "beginning of a new legacy."The Jets called their new colors "Gotham Green, Spotlight White and Stealth Black."--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe New York Giants are finalizing a four-year, $41 million contract extension with wide receiver Sterling Shepard, NFL Network reported Wednesday.The deal includes $21.3 million in guaranteed money, according to ESPN.Shepard, a second-round pick out of Oklahoma in 2016, set career highs last season with 66 catches for 872 yards. He has started 42 of his 43 games with the Giants, catching 190 passes for 2,286 yards and 14 touchdowns.The Giants also re-signed wide receiver Russell Shepard (no relation), who confirmed the news on social media.--Meanwhile, the Giants hosted former New York Jets cornerback Morris Claiborne and former Los Angeles Chargers defensive tackle Corey Liuget on free agent visits, ESPN reported.A former first-round pick of the Dallas Cowboys, the 29-year-old Claiborne started 30 games over the last two seasons for the Jets, breaking up 22 passes and making three interceptions.Liuget, 29, was released by the Chargers earlier this offseason. He has 24 career sacks since being drafted in the first round in 2011, though just three since 2015. He missed 10 games last season due to a suspension and a knee injury.--Projected top-five NFL draft pick Nick Bosa admitted in an interview with ESPN that he has scrubbed his Twitter account clean of anything that could be considered political.Bosa, a former Ohio State defensive end, frequently had tweeted his support for President Donald Trump, and he also criticized former San Francisco 49ers quarterback-turned-social activist Colin Kaepernick.However, knowing he could wind up in a liberal city, such as San Francisco, where the 49ers hold the No. 2 pick, he chose to clean the slate.--At least three more quarterbacks reportedly are visiting this week with the Washington Redskins, who hold the No. 15 pick in this month's draft.NFL Network said Duke's Daniel Jones, Ohio State's Dwayne Haskins and Northwestern's Clayton Thorson all have meetings scheduled with the Redskins, who have already hosted Missouri's Drew Lock and Auburn's Jarrett Stidham.Jones will visit Wednesday night and Thursday, Thorson meets with the team Wednesday, and Haskins is due sometime this week, according to NFL Network. West Virginia's Will Grier is also expected at Redskins Park in the coming days, according to NBC Sports Washington.--Free agent tight end Austin Seferian-Jenkins signed a contract with the New England Patriots. Terms were not announced, but multiple outlets reported it's a one-year deal for the veteran minimum.The team also confirmed the re-signing of kicker Stephen Gostkowski.Meanwhile, ESPN reported the Patriots brought in former Broncos and Texans wide receiver Demaryius Thomas and former Jaguars running back T.J. Yeldon for free agent visits.--The Jets signed former Alliance of American Football quarterback Brandon Silvers, the team announced.Silvers, 24, started three games for the Memphis Express and passed for 777 yards, four touchdowns and one interception. In four seasons at Troy from 2014-17, Silvers passed for 10,677 yards with 71 TDs and 29 picks.The Jets also brought former Chiefs running back Spencer Ware in for a visit and will host former Packers and Ravens running back Ty Montgomery on a visit on Thursday, ESPN reported.--The Buffalo Bills signed former Lions and 49ers defensive end Eli Harold to a one-year deal.Harold, 25, had a career-high four sacks along with five quarterback hits in 13 games as a reserve last season for the Lions, who acquired him from the 49ers late in training camp.A third-round pick in 2015, Harold has nine career sacks in 61 games (25 starts).--The Dallas Cowboys released guard Parker Ehinger and defensive tackle Aziz Shittu.Ehinger, 26, was acquired from the Chiefs in a trade during training camp last year, but he sustained a season-ending knee injury less than a week later and missed the whole season. He started four games in 2016 and one in 2017 with Kansas City.Shittu, 24, was on and off the Cowboys' practice squad last season. He has not appeared in a regular-season NFL game.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFormer NFL and Notre Dame running back Cierre Wood was scheduled to appear in court Thursday in Las Vegas after being charged with first-degree murder in the death of a 5-year-old girl, according to court records.The alleged victim was the daughter of Wood's girlfriend, identified by local media as 26-year-old Amy Taylor, who also was taken into custody Tuesday night at Summerlin Hospital.The Clark County Coroner's Office confirmed 5-year-old La'Ravah Davis died at the hospital that night, KVVU-TV in Las Vegas reported.Wood, 28, played in seven games in the NFL from 2013-15, carrying the ball five times for 12 yards. He was mostly on the practice squads in Houston, Buffalo, New England and Seattle. He also had three stops in the Canadian Football League after the NFL.At Notre Dame, where he played from 2010-12, he rushed for 16 touchdowns and 2,447 yards in his career. He also had 52 receptions for 384 yards and two scores.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersQuarterback Russell Wilson has told the Seattle Seahawks that he wants a new contract by April 15, the first day of the offseason workout program, the Seattle Times reported Tuesday.It is believed Wilson's side and the Seahawks have met recently.Wilson, 30, is entering the final year of a four-year, $87.6 million contract signed July 31, 2015, and he is scheduled to earn a base salary of $17 million in the 2019 season.While the Seahawks tend to finalize contracts the summer before the season begins, Wilson wants to move up the timeline to remove the distractions of contract talks like the ones he endured before signing in 2015.--The New England Patriots and newly acquired Michael Bennett agreed on a reworked contract that gives the defensive lineman a raise heading into the 2019 season, ESPN reported.The base value of the final two years of Bennett's contract increases from $15.7 million to $16.75 million and includes a $4 million signing bonus, according to the report. Bennett, 33, will earn $3 million this season with $1.5 million in per-game roster bonuses. He stands to earn a base of $7 million in 2020.The move also frees up about $700,000 in cap space for the Patriots this season, giving the club $18 million overall.--The Denver Broncos began their offseason workout program without Pro Bowl cornerback Chris Harris Jr.The conditioning program is voluntary, but Harris' absence is noteworthy because the eight-year veteran has never previously skipped a voluntary workout.The Broncos exercised their $1 million option on Harris last month and the 29-year-old has one year and $7.8 million remaining on his contract. His no-show most likely indicates he wants to see his contract extended sooner rather than later.--Houston Texans safety and cancer survivor Andre Hal announced his retirement, saying his decision was not health-related.Hal was diagnosed last June with Hodgkin lymphoma after experiencing blurry vision while practicing. Four months later, with the cancer in remission, he returned to the Texans and played in eight regular-season games and their playoff loss to the Indianapolis Colts."My health did not have anything to do with my decision," Hal wrote Tuesday. "I am completely healthy. Thank you to the Houston Texans organization for giving me the opportunity to live my childhood dream. I also want to thank my family and friends for all of their support. I truly appreciate it."--The Texans have hired Jack Easterby, the Patriots' former "character" coach, as their executive vice president of team development, the team announced.The Patriots hired Easterby in 2013 to help the team cope with the murder charges against tight end Aaron Hernandez. Easterby's contract expired this winter, and he decided to pursue other interests.He left the Patriots in February. After his departure, the Boston Globe reported Easterby thought his job "had run its course," but he also wasn't comfortable with the solicitation charges against team owner Robert Kraft.--The Dallas Cowboys extended defensive end Randy Gregory's contract for one year and $735,000, NFL Network reported.Gregory was set to enter the final year of his contract, but it's unclear if he will be eligible to play in 2019 after being suspended indefinitely in February, his fourth suspension under the league's substance abuse agreement.--The Jacksonville Jaguars signed running back Benny Cunningham, one day after reaching an agreement with running back Alfred Blue.Both visited the team on Monday, and now both will back up Leonard Fournette on the depth chart. No terms were disclosed.--The Indianapolis Colts claimed safety Derrick Kindred off waivers from the Cleveland Browns.Kindred, 25, was cut by Cleveland on Monday. A fourth-round pick in 2016, he has two interceptions and 12 passes defensed in 42 career games (17 starts).--The Kansas City Chiefs signed free agent tight end Blake Bell, multiple outlets reported.Bell, 27, was a college quarterback at Oklahoma. He has 30 catches for 357 yards in 50 games (12 starts) with three teams through four NFL seasons.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFormer Green Bay Packers coach Mike McCarthy was surprised to be fired before the end of the 2018 season.McCarthy addressed the situation in his first sit-down interview since the Packers fired him Dec. 2, which he said "couldn't have been handled any worse.""If we missed the playoffs, I expected change might happen," McCarthy told ESPN in the conversation four months after his dismissal. "But the timing surprised me. Actually it stunned me. But time provides the opportunity for reflection and clarity, and that's where I'm at now. And it's clear to me now that both sides needed a change."McCarthy was fired immediately after his team's 20-17 home loss to the Arizona Cardinals that left Green Bay 4-7-1. The Packers missed the postseason after finishing 6-9-1. McCarthy was in his 13th season with the Packers, which included a Super Bowl victory in 2011.--Recently retired receiver Jordy Nelson says he would consider playing in 2019 -- if Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers asks him to."It would probably be hard to say no," Nelson said during an appearance on "The Dan Patrick Show."Nelson, who turns 34 in May, announced his retirement last month after one season with the Oakland Raiders. He caught 63 passes for 739 yards and three touchdowns in 2018.--Prosecutors in Houston announced they are dismissing their case against defensive end Michael Bennett, who had been accused of shoving an elderly, wheelchair-bound NRG Stadium worker during Super Bowl LI."We dismissed this case in the interest of justice," said Vivian King, chief of staff of the Harris County District Attorney's Office. "After looking at all the evidence, this was the right thing to do."Bennett, now with the Patriots, had been facing a felony charge of injury to the elderly, punishable by up to 10 years in prison. The 6-foot-4, 275-pound lineman was accused of pushing and injuring a 66-year-old paraplegic woman as he tried to get onto the field to celebrate with his brother, former Patriots tight end Martellus Bennett, after New England defeated Atlanta on Feb. 5, 2017.--The wife of Detroit Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford announced she has been diagnosed with a brain tumor and will undergo surgery.Kelly Stafford said an MRI showed she has acoustic neuroma, which is a benign tumor, that is abutting her cranial nerves.She said she had been suffering from vertigo and experiencing other unusual symptoms and had the MRI performed on the advice of the Lions' team doctor.--The Raiders signed wideout Ryan Grant, adding the veteran to an overhauled position group that includes Antonio Brown, Tyrell Williams and J.J. Nelson.Grant, 28, caught 35 passes for 334 yards and one touchdown in 14 games last season with Indianapolis.He played the previous four seasons with Washington, who drafted him in the fifth round in 2014. In 64 games with the Redskins, Grant caught 84 passes for 985 yards and six touchdowns.--The Buffalo Bills announced the signing of veteran guard Quinton Spain to a one-year deal.Spain, 27, started 48 games for the Tennessee Titans over the past four seasons.Spain is the sixth new addition to Buffalo's offensive line this offseason, joining Spencer Long, Mitch Morse, Ty Nsekhe, Jon Feliciano and LaAdrian Waddle.--The Atlanta Falcons re-signed linebacker Kemal Ishmael and guard Adam Gettis to one-year contracts.Ishmael, who turns 28 in May, played 330 of his 394 total snaps last season on special teams. Gettis has not played in an NFL game since 2016, when he was with the New York Giants.--The Cleveland Browns re-signed tight end/fullback Orson Charles. Terms were not announced.Charles, 28, caught three passes for 23 yards in 13 games (two starts) for Cleveland last season.--The Giants released wideout/return specialist Quadree Henderson, ESPN reported.Henderson, 22, returned nine punts for 68 yards (7.6-yard average) and five kickoffs for 112 yards (22.4 average) in five games last season as an undrafted rookie out of Pittsburgh. He did not catch a pass.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPittsburgh guard Ramon Foster is asking his ex-teammates to stop the criticism of current Steelers players.The latest social-media salvo was fired early Thursday morning by former Steelers running back Rashard Mendenhall, who called quarterback Ben Roethlisberger a racist in a series of tweets. Mendenhall, who played for Pittsburgh from 2008-12, was addressing accusations that wideout Antonio Brown quit on the team when he did not play in the 2018 season finale."Moving forward...any former player or affiliate of the Steelers who has an issue with anyone still in the locker room, please contact me or Maurkice Pouncey or anyone else you feel you can talk to," Foster wrote in response on Twitter. "Whoever you have an issue with, we will get you their number so you can address them. I PROMISE."These media takes might give y'all good traffic on your social media outlets but the guys still in that locker room, who y'all still know personally have to answer for those comments. Call them what you want, but call them personally and tell THEM. Defend who you want to defend but you don't have to mention the team at all."--Oklahoma quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner Kyler Murray had a pre-draft visit with the New York Giants, and he reportedly will head to an NFC East rival next.Multiple outlets reported the Giants visit, and Murray posted a photo on social media of the outside of the team's facility. The MMQB reported Murray also will visit the Washington Redskins next week.By most accounts, Murray remains the favorite to go first overall to the Arizona Cardinals.--All-Pro guard Marshal Yanda agreed to a one-year contract extension with the Baltimore Ravens through the 2020 season, ESPN reported.Some speculated the 34-year-old veteran, a seven-time Pro Bowler, might retire this offseason. Yanda was entering the final year of a four-year, $32 million deal signed in 2015.An Iowa product, Yanda has been with the Ravens since they drafted him in the third round in 2007. He ranks seventh in franchise history with 162 games played.--Jacksonville Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette was arrested on suspicion of driving with a suspended license, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office.His license had been suspended for failing to pay a speeding ticket, according to multiple reports.Fournette was cited on Nov. 17 for driving 37 mph in a 25 mph zone, which carried a fine of $204, according to the Duval County Clerk of Courts. The 24-year-old was released on a $1,500 bond. The team said it is aware of the situation but declined further comment.--The Jets signed former Packers and Ravens running back Ty Montgomery.Terms were not disclosed, but multiple outlets reported the deal is for one year.A converted wideout, the 26-year-old Montgomery spent his first three-plus seasons with Green Bay before being traded to Baltimore for a 2020 seventh-round pick in October.--Dallas Cowboys right tackle La'el Collins is recovering from surgery to repair a torn rotator cuff in his shoulder, he told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.Collins had the operation in January and expects to be ready for training camp.The 25-year-old has started all 32 games at right tackle for Dallas over the past two seasons.--The Jaguars claimed guard Parker Ehinger off waivers from the Cowboys.Ehinger, 26, missed all of 2018 with a knee injury sustained in training camp. He started four games in 2016 and one in 2017 with Kansas City.--Free agent defensive tackle Tyeler Davison will visit the San Francisco 49ers on Friday, NFL.com reported.Davison, 26, recently visited the Atlanta Falcons, per reports. He had 23 tackles and two sacks in 14 games (12 starts) for the New Orleans Saints last season.--Former NFL and Notre Dame running back Cierre Wood was scheduled to appear in court in Las Vegas after being charged with first-degree murder in the death of a 5-year-old girl, according to court records.The alleged victim was the daughter of Wood's girlfriend, identified by local media as 26-year-old Amy Taylor, who also was taken into custody Tuesday night at Summerlin Hospital.The Clark County Coroner's Office confirmed 5-year-old La'Ravah Davis died at the hospital that night, KVVU-TV in Las Vegas reported.--Former Alabama wide receiver and New York Jets draft pick ArDarius Stewart was arrested in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on suspicion of carrying a pistol without a permit, AL.com reported.Stewart was being held on $500 bond, according to the report.Stewart was selected by the Jets in the third round of the 2017 draft after a decorated career with the Crimson Tide but was out of football in 2018.--The Giants signed former Alliance of American Football cornerback Henre' Toliver. Toliver, 22, had two pass breakups and 13 tackles in eight games with the Salt Lake Stallions of the AAF.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFormer Alabama wide receiver and New York Jets draft pick ArDarius Stewart was arrested in Tuscaloosa, Ala., Thursday for carrying a pistol without a permit, AL.com reported.Stewart was being held on $500 bond, according to the report.Stewart was selected by the Jets in the third round of the 2017 draft after a decorated career with the Crimson Tide. Stewart caught 129 passes for 1,713 yards and 12 touchdowns at Alabama in three years.Stewart played 15 games as a rookie for the Jets but caught just six passes for 82 yards before being cut in 2018 in the aftermath of a two-game suspension for testing positive for a performance enhancing drug.The Raiders and Redskins signed Stewart to their practice squads late last year and both teams released him shortly thereafter, most recently the Redskins in January.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the naming of an acting defense secretary, the possibility of an extended government shutdown and the aftermath of a deadly tsunami in Indonesia.The president said on Sunday that he would remove Defense Secretary Jim Mattis by Jan. 1, two months earlier than planned, after a parade of defense analysts went on TV over the weekend to praise Mr. Mattis and his resignation letter, which criticized Mr. Trump’s foreign policy. Patrick Shanahan, a former Boeing executive who was Mr. Mattis’s deputy, will serve as acting defense secretary.Mr. Trump also suggested that the U.S. military’s withdrawal from Syria, which he announced last week over Mr. Mattis’s objection, would not come as soon as promised. Notable: Brett McGurk, the U.S. special envoy to the coalition fighting the Islamic State, sped up his own departure, telling colleagues that he could not in good conscience carry out Mr. Trump’s new Syria policy.From Opinion: Susan Rice, a former national security adviser, writes that the decision-making process that led to Mr. Mattis’s resignation does more to undermine American national security than any foreign adversary does.Last week was the worst for markets in a decade, and President Trump has become increasingly convinced that one man is to blame: Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.After the central bank raised its benchmark interest rate for the fifth consecutive quarter, Mr. Trump told aides that Mr. Powell would “turn me into Hoover,” referring to the president in the early years of the Great Depression. Mr. Trump’s advisers sought over the weekend to offer reassurances that the president wasn’t planning to fire Mr. Powell. The reaction:  Wall Street added to its string of recent losses this morning.Go deeper: At the midpoint of his term, the president has become more sure of his own judgment and more isolated from anyone else’s. “I’m doing great, but it’s a war every day,” he has told aides.The partial government shutdown will continue until at least Thursday — and most likely into the new year — as negotiations have essentially stopped over President Trump’s demand for $5 billion for a border wall. Democrats see little reason to compromise given that they take control of the House on Jan. 3. At that point, Representative Nancy Pelosi, who is expected to be the new speaker, could use her majority to approve a measure to fund the government for a year without additional money for a wall.While about 800,000 federal employees are affected by the shutdown, about three-quarters of the government has been funded, considerably reducing the impact.Looking back: There have been at least 21 lapses in government funding in the past 40 years. Here’s how shutdowns have evolved over time.A search for survivors is underway after an enormous wave struck the country’s two most-populous islands over the weekend, killing hundreds of people, injuring more than 1,450 and destroying hundreds of buildings.It was the second deadly tsunami in Indonesia this year, a time during which the country has also faced earthquakes, floods and an airline crash.Officials suspect the tsunami was caused by volcanic activity on a nearby island. There was no seismic activity in the area, which means there was no warning that could have prompted an evacuation alert and saved lives.Explainer: Tsunamis are created when large amounts of water are quickly displaced. One of our science reporters discussed their mechanics.A Times examination of mass shootings since the Virginia Tech attack in 2007 shows how credit cards have become a crucial part of the planning of these massacres.Omar Mateen, who killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla., in 2016, charged more than $26,000 in the weeks before the shooting, buying guns, magazines and thousands of rounds of ammunition. None of the banks, credit-card network operators or payment processors involved alerted law enforcement officials about any of the purchases, though the gunman himself worried they would seem suspicious.Banks and credit-card networks say it isn’t their responsibility to track gun purchases in such a way as to allow them to report suspicious patterns.How we know: The Times reviewed hundreds of documents including police reports, bank records and investigator notes from a decade of mass shootings.Around the country, nativity scenes are being robbed of their focal figure (and sometimes of Mary, too). The motives aren’t clear. Could it be an erosion of faith? Or mere teenage pranks? In any case, rattled communities are responding with measures as varied as glue and Jesus cams, as well as a sprinkling of forgiveness. Early elections in Israel. The country will dissolve Parliament and hold elections in early April. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces possible graft charges and his coalition has been weakened by a defection.Tent city closing: All 2,500 migrant children being housed at a facility in Tornillo, Tex., are expected to be released to a parent or sponsor in the U.S. by Jan. 15, an official with the shelter operator said. London airport confusion: A couple detained in connection with the illegal use of drones last week at Gatwick Airport were released without charges. The police also said they had recovered a “damaged” drone near the airport, where more than 1,000 flights were disrupted.Women’s March dispute: Accusations of anti-Semitism have overshadowed the movement as it prepares for its third set of rallies next month. Journalism scandal: The German newsmagazine Der Spiegel said it would press charges against a former reporter accused of faking interviews and articles, some of the most notable of which were from the U.S.Snapshot: Above, a Christmas parade in Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital, on Sunday.Hollywood rebound: “Aquaman” earned $67.4 million at the domestic box office, capping a year in which ticket sales increased 6 percent from a dismal 2017.N.F.L. playoff picture: With one week remaining in the regular season, we trace the sometimes convoluted paths that remain for each team with a chance to reach the playoffs.What we’re watching: This 34-second video by Elle showing 27 women, all members of the most diverse House of Representatives since it first met in 1789, reciting the Preamble to the Constitution. Lynda Richardson, an editor for Travel, called it “chill-worthy.” Cook: This hearty garlic soup requires only a few staples and comes together quickly. Listen: The Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols at King’s College, Cambridge, will be directed for the last time by Stephen Cleobury and broadcast around the world at 10 a.m. Eastern.Read: Here’s our reading list if you want to explore the mood and era of Barry Jenkins’s adaptation of James Baldwin’s 1974 novel, “If Beale Street Could Talk.” Watch: “Cold War,” a stylized romance set against the backdrops of midcentury Poland and France. In her review, Manohla Dargis calls the movie’s two leads “knockouts.”Smarter Living: Our subconscious programming — developed through our youth and into adulthood — plays a huge role in how we survive or thrive at work. A time management coach sorted through what psychologists call “attachment” styles and gives advice on identifying your own. One example: People who often work extended hours might be too focused on their own judgment of a project’s importance, and might need to work at accepting the validity of others’ points of view.If you love Christmas carols, thank Oberndorf bei Salzburg, a tiny riverside town in Austria.That’s because “Silent Night, Holy Night” had its first performance there 200 years ago tonight.The local priest wrote the words. The organist provided the melody. But the town’s organ was in such poor condition that they first sang it with a guitar.The carol spread by word of mouth, reaching the U.S. via some Tirolean folk singers in 1839.The original chapel is long gone, but a new one marks the spot, said Hermann Schneider, a retired baker who now gives tours.Polish tourists celebrate Masses, he said, bringing their own priests. American brass bands sometimes appear. This month, a Sri Lankan group told him Buddhists sang the carol back in their home.Why does “Silent Night” have such wide appeal?“Because the melody’s so simple,” Mr. Schneider said. “You sing it once to someone, they’ll know it.”That’s it for this briefing. We’ll be off tomorrow for Christmas but will return on Wednesday.See you then.— ChrisThank youTo Aisha Harris for the cultural eye and Kenneth R. Rosen for Smarter Living tips. Alex Marshall, our culture reporter in Europe, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is an audio time capsule of 2018.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Zodiac sign after Leo (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The youngest person to have a crossword puzzle published in The Times is Daniel Larsen, who debuted at 13. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperDavid Eaton, a top executive with the NFL Network, resigned a little more than a week after the league-owned sports channel came under fire for tolerating a hostile work environment for female employees.Last week, Eaton got swept up in the controversy after news media reports surfaced about his history of engaging in sexually explicit conversations on Twitter.“Last night David Eaton tendered his resignation from NFL Media effective immediately,” the network said in a statement Wednesday.Eaton’s Twitter history and resignation were first reported by Deadspin. He was the vice president and executive editor of NFL Media, in charge of news operations at both the television channel and NFL.com.According to screen shots of his account reviewed by The New York Times, over a period of several years Eaton engaged in sexually explicit conversations with accounts that belonged to adult-film actresses, as well as accounts in which users identified themselves as prostitutes and paid escorts. Among the more than 1,000 Twitter accounts Eaton followed were dozens of similar accounts, as well as those of N.F.L. teams, reporters he supervised and airlines.Eaton, 53, was hired by the NFL Network in 2011 from ABC News, where he had been a bureau chief.Last week, the NFL Network suspended the analysts Marshall Faulk, Ike Taylor and Heath Evans, pending an investigation into claims of sexual harassment and assault made by a former wardrobe stylist for the network, Jami Cantor. The day after the suspensions, Eaton’s Twitter account was deleted.The N.F.L. is also dealing with the fallout from allegations that Carolina Panthers owner Jerry Richardson had sexually harassed employees and made racially charged statements. On Sunday Richardson announced he would sell the team after the season, and the league said an investigation into his conduct would continue.Eaton did not return phone calls seeking comment.Follow Kevin Draper on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperSix current and former NFL Network employees, five of them former N.F.L. players, were suspended by their employers after they were named in a lawsuit claiming they had sexually harassed and assaulted a former colleague.The NFL Network suspended the analysts Marshall Faulk, Heath Evans and Ike Taylor pending an investigation in response to the suit.ESPN is investigating the claims made against former NFL Network analysts Donovan McNabb and Eric Davis, who have shows on ESPN Radio. McNabb and Davis “will not appear on our networks as that investigation proceeds,” an ESPN spokesman said.In addition, Eric Weinberger, the president of the Bill Simmons Media Group and a former NFL Network executive, was suspended by the media group.“These are very serious and disturbing allegations that we were made aware of today,” a spokesman for the Bill Simmons Media Group said in a statement. “We are placing Eric on leave indefinitely until we have a better understanding of what transpired during his time at the N.F.L., and we will conduct our own internal investigation.”The allegations were made in a lawsuit by a former NFL Network employee, Jami Cantor, who sued NFL Enterprises, the league’s media arm that operates the network, in Los Angeles Superior Court in October. Cantor, who worked as a wardrobe stylist for the network, claimed age and sex discrimination, sexual harassment and hostile work environment, and wrongful termination, among other complaints.Cantor, who was employed by the network from 2006 until she was fired in October 2016, filed an amended complaint on Monday that more fully laid out repeated instances of sexual harassment and assault she said she suffered while working for the network.In the complaint, Cantor said that Faulk, a Hall of Fame running back, asked personal questions about her sex life, fondled her and exposed his genitals while demanding oral sex; that Evans, a former fullback, sent nude pictures and propositioned her; and that Taylor, a former cornerback, sent her a video that showed him masturbating.Cantor’s complaint also said that McNabb, a former quarterback, sent her sexually inappropriate text messages; that Davis, a former cornerback, made lewd comments and groped her; and that Weinberger groped her and put his crotch against her.McNabb left NFL Network in 2013, but later lost a job with Fox Sports after pleading guilty to drunken driving in November 2015. Davis left the network in 2016, and appears frequently on Fox Sports; a spokesman there declined to comment. Weinberger left the network in 2015.The lawsuit also said Cantor had been harassed by Warren Sapp, a former player and an ex-NFL Network analyst, as well as by Marc Watts, a former talent coordinator for the network. Sapp was fired from the network in 2015 after being arrested on charges of assault and soliciting prostitution.“The supervisors knew about it, the supervisors observed it,” Cantor’s lawyer, Laura Horton, said in an interview on Monday. “It was insidious in this particular environment.”NFL Network declined to comment beyond its initial statement announcing the suspensions. Weinberger, Taylor and McNabb did not respond to requests for comment; a representative for Faulk and Evans did not respond to a request for comment; Davis could not be reached for comment.The network sent employees an email on Tuesday asking them not to comment on the allegations with anyone in the media, according to two people familiar with the email. And the N.F.L. is considering hiring an outside counsel to conduct an independent investigation, as Fox News did last year to investigate allegations of sexual harassment by the longtime network chief Roger Ailes, according to a person involved in the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly about them.All five players suspended had long and successful N.F.L. careers Faulk, a seven-time Pro Bowler who played for the Indianapolis Colts and the St. Louis Rams, won the Super Bowl with the Rams after the 1999 season and retired in 2007. Taylor spent his 12-year career with the Pittsburgh Steelers, winning two Super Bowl titles before retiring in 2015. Evans played for four teams across 10 seasons, winning a championship with the New Orleans Saints in 2010. He retired in 2011.McNabb was a six-time Pro Bowler who played for three teams across a 13-year career, primarily with the Philadelphia Eagles, before retiring in 2013. Davis played for 13 years and four teams, retiring in 2003.The lawsuit and suspensions are the latest in a wave of sexual harassment scandals that have led to firings and resignations of powerful men across a number of industries after a New York Times investigation into accusations of sexual harassment and abuse against the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.They are not the first accusations to hit the sports world — Fox Sports fired the executive Jamie Horowitz after claims of sexual misconduct in July, the former major league catcher Gregg Zaun was fired from his job as an analyst after inappropriate behavior, and the former N.F.L. quarterback Warren Moon was accused of harassment last week. They are certainly the most high-profile to date.They are also the latest in a string of bad news for the N.F.L. This season has seen continued protests during the national anthem, a bruising fight among owners over the extension of Commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract, a protracted lawsuit over the suspension of Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott after he was accused of domestic violence, and falling television ratings.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperNFL Network has suspended the analysts Marshall Faulk, Heath Evans and Ike Taylor “pending an investigation” into allegations of sexual harassment and assault, the network announced late Monday.The allegations were made in a lawsuit by a former NFL Network employee, Jami Cantor, who sued NFL Enterprises, the league’s media arm that operates the network, in Los Angeles Superior Court in October, alleging age and sex discrimination, sexual harassment and hostile work environment, and wrongful termination, among other complaints.Eric Weinberger, the president of the Bill Simmons Media Group and a former NFL Network executive, was suspended by the media group as a result of allegations made about him in the lawsuit.“These are very serious and disturbing allegations that we were made aware of today,” a spokesman for the Bill Simmons Media Group said in a statement. “We are placing Eric on leave indefinitely until we have a better understanding of what transpired during his time at the N.F.L., and we will conduct our own internal investigation.”Cantor worked as a wardrobe stylist for the network from 2006 until she was fired in October 2016. She filed an amended complaint on Monday that more fully laid out the allegations of sexual harassment and assault against the three analysts, all former N.F.L. players.In the complaint, Cantor says that Faulk, a Hall of Fame running back, asked personal questions about her sex life, fondled her and pulled out his genitals while demanding oral sex; that Evans, a former fullback, sent nude pictures and propositioned her; and that Taylor, a former cornerback, sent her a video that showed him masturbating. Cantor said that Weinberger, who left the network in 2015, groped her and put his crotch against her.The lawsuit also said that Cantor had been harassed by the former N.F.L. players and ex-NFL Network analysts Donovan McNabb and Warren Sapp, as well as by the former network employee Marc Watts. Sapp was fired from the network in 2015 after being arrested for assault and soliciting prostitution. McNabb left the network in 2013, but later lost a job with Fox Sports after pleading guilty to drunken driving in November 2015.“The supervisors knew about it, the supervisors observed it,” Cantor’s lawyer, Laura Horton, said in an interview on Monday. “It was insidious in this particular environment.”NFL Network declined to comment beyond its initial statement announcing the suspensions. Representatives for Faulk, Evans and Taylor did not immediately respond to requests for comment.All three players had long and successful N.F.L. careers that included a Super Bowl title. Faulk, a seven-time Pro Bowler who played for the Indianapolis Colts and the St. Louis Rams, won the Super Bowl with the Rams after the 1999 season and retired in 2007. Taylor spent his entire 12-year career with the Pittsburgh Steelers, winning two Super Bowl titles before retiring in 2015. Evans played for four teams across 10 seasons, winning a championship with the New Orleans Saints in 2010. He retired in 2011.The lawsuit and suspensions are the latest in a wave of sexual harassment scandals that have led to firings and resignations of powerful men across a number of industries after a New York Times investigation into accusations of sexual harassment and abuse against the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.Though they are not the first accusations to hit the sports world — Fox Sports fired the executive Jamie Horowitz after claims of sexual misconduct in July, the former major league catcher Gregg Zaun was fired from his job as an analyst after inappropriate behavior, and the former N.F.L. quarterback Warren Moon was accused of harassment last week — they are certainly the most high-profile to date.They are also the latest in a string of bad news for the N.F.L. This season has seen continued protests during the national anthem, a bruising fight among owners over the extension of Commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract, a protracted lawsuit over the suspension of Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott after he was accused of domestic violence, and falling television ratings.The lawsuit and suspensions were first reported by Bloomberg News.Follow Kevin Draper on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• The attempted suicide bombing Monday morning was the second attack in the city in two months, and the third since September 2016.“The choice of New York is always for a reason, because we are a beacon to the world,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said afterward. “And we actually show that a society of many faiths and many backgrounds can work.”Here’s our main article on the explosion, the result of a crudely made pipe bomb being detonated in a subway corridor near Times Square.A map shows the area, and surveillance video captured the moment of the blast, which seriously injured the assailant.• The suspect is a 27-year-old from Bangladesh who went to live in Brooklyn through a visa program available to relatives of American citizens. He told investigators that he was retaliating for U.S. airstrikes against the Islamic State. Here’s what else we know about him.• Today’s special Senate election, which has prompted one of the strangest and ugliest campaigns ever held in the state, has implications for Republicans in Congress as well as President Trump. Here are four things to watch.On Monday, Roy Moore, the Republican candidate, who has been accused of sexual misconduct, rallied rural conservatives. His opponent, Doug Jones, addressed a diverse crowd in Birmingham.• The widely-agreed-on bottom line, according to our reporters in Alabama: “If Mr. Jones can attract the votes of young people and African-Americans, and peel away a chunk of Republican-leaning whites — particularly women — who recoil from Mr. Moore, then he has a chance to win. Otherwise, the state’s conservative DNA is all but certain to kick in and rescue Mr. Moore from tribulations of his own making.”• The NFL Network has suspended three analysts — all former players, including the Hall of Fame running back Marshall Faulk — after allegations by a former stylist.Also on Monday, several women who had spoken out during the presidential campaign publicly renewed their accusations of sexual misconduct against Donald Trump. Today, President Trump blamed Democrats for the “fabricated stories.”• And we look at the inner workings of the office of Representative Blake Farenthold of Texas, who was sued by a former aide for sexual harassment. Legal documents reveal a hostile work environment that prompted one lawmaker to call Congress “the worst” place for women to work.• Among the transformations that the North American Free Trade Agreement brought to the country: a diet more like that of its northern neighbor, complete with junk food, soda, meat — and an epidemic of diet-related illnesses.“The only way that Mexico became a ‘first world’ country was in terms of diet,” one trade expert said.• The phenomenon is not limited to Mexico. Free trade is a major contributor to the spread of low-nutrient, highly processed foods from the West to developing countries worldwide.Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.• The Treasury Department released a one-page analysis of the Senate tax bill that suggested the $1.5 trillion plan would more than pay for itself. The only hitch? The economy must grow much faster than any independent analysis of the bill has projected.• President Trump has escalated his attacks on the news media, seizing on several recent mistaken reports to bolster his case that he is being persecuted.• Artificial intelligence may make half of today’s jobs obsolete in 20 years. What will be left?“The robot plumber is a long, long way away,” one management theorist assured us.• U.S. stocks were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Stressed about holiday messes? Here’s how to clean up.• Even in touch-averse cultures, men need platonic physical contact.• Recipe of the day: Hot sauce livens up noodle kugel.• Climb a $150 million stairway to nowhere.In today’s 360 video, watch the construction of “Vessel,” a 15-story interactive sculpture that is the centerpiece of five acres of public space at the Hudson Yards development in Manhattan.• Partisan writing you shouldn’t miss.Writers from across the political spectrum discuss Roy Moore and the Alabama race.• Hang out with the popular crowd.Read the 100 most-read stories from The Times this year.• Best of late-night TV.Stephen Colbert addressed the suspect in Monday’s subway attack: “Nice try. New York commuters don’t even flinch when the subway break dancers kick two inches away from their face.”• Quotation of the day.“We cannot stop living. There was the event on the bike path last month. I tell you, I’m more concerned by the derailment on this line last summer.”— Louis Bernier, a passenger on an A train in New York after the would-be suicide attack.Long before there were meatless Mondays, there were meatless Tuesdays, wheatless Wednesdays and pork-free Saturdays.One hundred years ago, during World War I, the U.S. government  appealed for the country to sacrifice more to help its allies in Europe avoid starvation.Americans were already encouraged to give up meat (red meat, preserved meat and lard) on Tuesdays, and wheat on Wednesdays. The new instructions also excluded pork on Saturday and recommended one meal without meat or wheat each day.“In this emergency, only the simplest of living is patriotic,” said the future president Herbert Hoover, then a food administrator.In the winter of 1917, he said, “lies the period when there will be tested in this great free country of ours the question as to whether or not our people are capable of voluntary individual self-sacrifice to save the world.”The guidelines were later tightened again, and declared a success.A similar plea came after World War II. President Harry Truman, in the first televised address from the White House, asked Americans to give up meat on Tuesdays and poultry and eggs on Thursdays to help those struggling in Europe.“We must not fail them,” he said.Sarah Anderson contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWashington Redskins linebacker Reuben Foster will be fined but not suspended for his involvement in an incident that led to misdemeanor domestic violence battery charges that ultimately were dropped, the NFL announced Friday.The league said Foster would be fined two game checks. He is scheduled to earn a base salary of $1.29 million in the 2019 season.The charges stemmed from an incident in Tampa on Nov. 24 when Foster was a member of the San Francisco 49ers. His former girlfriend, Elissa Ennis, said Foster pushed her in the chest area and slapped her with an open hand on the left side of her face at a Tampa hotel on the eve of the 49ers' game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.The 49ers released Foster the next day and the Redskins claimed him two days later. The NFL placed Foster on the commissioner's exempt list, and he did not play the rest of the season."Following a thorough investigation, the evidence did not support a finding that Foster violated the NFL's Personal Conduct Policy in connection with the Tampa incident in November 2018. The NFL has returned Foster to the active roster from the Commissioner Exempt list. He may fully participate in all team activities," the NFL said in a statement issued Friday.Washington team president Bruce Allen said the team has told Foster it will not tolerate any further off-field incidents."The Redskins have put in place a comprehensive responsibility and accountability plan to help Reuben be successful on and off the field," Allen said in a statement. "Elements of this plan include individual counseling, a structured living arrangement, weekly meetings with the club player engagement director, weekly meetings with our team chaplain, and targeted community service engagements."We have been very clear with Reuben that his past does not have to determine his future - but the responsibility is squarely on him to change. Reuben must fully adhere to the plan we have developed for him. Reuben knows that we simply will not tolerate any future conduct that is detrimental to the Washington Redskins organization or to the NFL."In a statement issued by the team, Foster said he understood the conditions."I accept the NFL's decision and want to say that I am truly sorry for my past actions and the people who may have been hurt by them," Foster said. "Going forward, I will follow the plan outlined for me and work hard to earn back the trust of my teammates, the NFL, NFL fans, and the community. I know that my success is all up to me, and I am committed to not letting you down."A first-round draft pick in 2017, the 31st player selected overall, Foster had 29 tackles but no sacks, forced fumbles, fumble recoveries or interceptions in the six games he played last season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanN.F.L. free agency hit the ground running, with many of the big names having agreed to terms before they were actually allowed to sign new contracts. The class was packed with prominent quarterbacks — a list that included Drew Brees, Kirk Cousins, Case Keenum, Sam Bradford and Teddy Bridgewater — and other than Brees all of them changed teams.Here is a look at the free agency picture as it currently stands:One unexpected free agent is Tyrann Mathieu, a safety for the Arizona Cardinals, who was released by the team after a failed effort to restructure his contract.“I’ve never made a secret that Tyrann has always had a special place in my heart and always will,” General Manager Steve Keim said. “While we all understand this is a part of the business, that certainly doesn’t make it any easier.”The Cardinals would have been on the hook for $14 million on the salary cap for 2018 if Mathieu had been retained.Efforts to redo that deal failed. “The tough part is when someone asks you to take a pay cut,” Mathieu said on NFL Network last week. “I don’t think that makes sense for a lot of players.”Mathieu, known as the Honey Badger, was a third-round pick out of Louisiana State, where he won the Chuck Bednarik award as best defensive player in the country.He played five years for the Cardinals, peaking in 2015 with a Pro Bowl selection. He has had 11 interceptions in his career.At least one player was eager to have Mathieu as a teammate:Where they went: All three of the Vikings’ quarterbacks are on their way to new teams. Besides Case Keenum going to the Broncos (see below), multiple media sources say Teddy Bridgewater will sign with the Jets and Sam Bradford with the Cardinals.Bridgewater was once an ascending star who was expected to lead the Vikings to the promised land and, when his knee exploded before the 2016 season, Bradford was the quarterback Minnesota traded two draft picks to acquire.What that means: Bradford, 30, has occasionally shown signs of why he was the No. 1 overall pick in the 2010 draft, but he has also dealt with fairly serious injuries. He inherits a Cardinals team that was a contender with Carson Palmer on the field over the last few years but fairly bad without him. If Bradford can stay injury-free, there is the potential for a good fit, but it will be an uphill climb in the competitive N.F.C. West. The stakes are lower for the 25-year-old Bridgewater, who has attempted just two passes in the two seasons since his devastating knee injury (both fell incomplete). He looked great in 2015, and has youth on his side, but the Jets are also bringing back Josh McCown, and have enough question marks on the team’s roster to ease the pressure on Bridgewater’s comeback.One of the best left tackles in N.F.L. history, Joe Thomas of the Cleveland Browns, has chosen to retire after 11 seasons. The decision is not entirely unexpected, as he sustained a devastating injury to his triceps last season and has nothing left to prove on the field, but there is now a gaping hole on the offensive line of a team that has been making serious moves to get back to respectability this off-season.“My mind is good, but my body is not willing,” Thomas said.With six first-team All-Pro selections, and 10 Pro Bowl appearances, as well as a reputation as one of the most durable linemen to ever play the game, Thomas is nearly a lock for Hall of Fame induction as soon as he is eligible.Where he went: Malcolm Butler appears committed to joining the Titans after four years in New England. A 28-year-old cornerback, he will be paid like a top defensive back even after a rocky end to his career with the Patriots.What that means: Butler was once the hero of a Super Bowl victory thanks to a last-minute interception and had developed into one of the game’s better cornerbacks in just his third year, but a poor end to the 2017 season and a bizarre demotion to the bench for last year’s Super Bowl made him a bit of a wild card heading into free agency. Butler is not old enough to have lost a step, and the Titans clearly believe he just needed a change of scenery. But the Patriots are known for getting rid of players at just the right time — if occasionally a year early — so he is far from a sure thing to succeed.Where he went: The 49ers were quick to announce that running back Jerick McKinnon, formerly of the Vikings, had agreed to join the team. ESPN has reported that his deal will be worth up to $30 million over four years.What that means: McKinnon will replace Carlos Hyde, who is signing with the Cleveland Browns.Drafted by the Vikings in the third round out of Georgia Southern in 2014, McKinnon started his career as a backup to Adrian Peterson. Last season, he got a chance for a bigger role when the rookie Dalvin Cook was injured and responded with his best season, 570 yards rushing and 421 receiving, both career highs.Along with Latavius Murray, he provided an effective rushing attack that helped send the Vikings to the conference championship game, and the 49ers have added some protection for him on the offensive line with the signing of Weston Richburg, a center and guard who had previously been with the Giants.Where he might go: It is too soon to know which teams Jordy Nelson might be interested in joining, since the Packers did not announce his release until 5 p.m. Eastern on Tuesday, but there will surely be suitors lined up for the 32-year-old wide receiver. The New England Patriots were immediately identified as a potential destination by several pundits.What that means: After a down year in which he had just 53 catches for 482 yards, Nelson became expendable to the Packers. The fact that his release will give the team $10.2 million in cap space was certainly the deciding factor considering the respect he commands in an out of the Packers organization. In the announcement of Nelson’s release, Packers General Manager Brian Gutekunst said “Jordy will always be a member of the Packers family and we look forward to his eventual induction into the Packers Hall of Fame.” Nelson is expected to put off that induction by signing with another team, and just a year removed from a season in which he had 1,257 receiving yards and 14 touchdowns, it is reasonable to think that he still has something to offer.With some money freed up, the Packers are believed to have reached an agreement with Jimmy Graham, a five-time Pro Bowler at tight end, who had 57 catches for 520 yards and 10 touchdowns last season with the Seattle Seahawks. The 31-year-old was a favorite target for Drew Brees in New Orleans, had a good rapport with Russell Wilson in Seattle, and will now get a chance to catch passes from another top-shelf quarterback in Aaron Rodgers.Where he went: The team has yet to issue a formal announcement, but Kirk Cousins, the 29-year-old quarterback, has chosen the Minnesota Vikings as his new home after having entered unrestricted free agency following a few years of being kept in Washington thanks to the franchise tag. After three full seasons as a starter for the Redskins Cousins was a unicorn of sorts as a franchise quarterback in his 20s who was able to choose to play wherever he’d like. As a result, his asking price was extraordinarily high, with multiple media reports indicating he has agreed to a three-year deal for $84 million, all of which is guaranteed.What that means: The Vikings nearly made the Super Bowl with Keenum as their starting quarterback. Cousins, who has thrown for more than 13,000 yards and 81 touchdowns over the last three seasons, represents a fairly substantial upgrade. There are those who point toward Cousins’s 26-30-1 career record as a starter as a potential warning sign, but he has consistently played on a team with a subpar defense, and that will not be a problem in Minnesota. Cousins would also enjoy a deeper supporting cast on offense, with a pair of star receivers in Adam Thielen and Stefon Diggs, a rock solid tight end in Kyle Rudolph, and a potential star in Dalvin Cook, a second-year running back who had a good start to the 2017 season before missing the final 12 games of the season with a torn anterior cruciate ligament.Where he went: Trumaine Johnson, a 28-year-old cornerback, is walking away from the Los Angeles Rams after six seasons and will be part of the rebuilding process with the Jets.What that means: It is slightly surprising for one of the biggest prizes of the off-season to end up with the Jets, a team that had to overachieve to go 5-11 last season. But the Jets should certainly benefit from adding a defensive back squarely in his prime who has 18 career interceptions, three of which he returned for touchdowns. The question is if they can be a contending team while he is still at the top of his game.Where he went: His regular season success, and a postseason touchdown throw that will be remembered for decades, were not enough to earn him the full-time job in Minnesota, so Keenum agreed to terms with the Denver Broncos to take over as that team’s starting quarterback, with the signing officially announced by the team on Wednesday.What that means: The Broncos won the Super Bowl as recently as the 2015 season, but the retirement of Peyton Manning after his second Super Bowl title left the team without a reliable starting quarterback. That led to two years of missing the playoffs as the once-terrific defense slowly withered away. Enter Keenum, who had been stamped with the label of journeyman backup until last season, but will now be asked to prove that his 11-2 record as a starter in 2017 was not a fluke. There is plenty of statistical evidence to show that Keenum earned his success last season, but stepping away from the talent-ridden Vikings could make him suddenly appear far more pedestrian.What that means: The 17-year veteran lasted a few hours as a free agent before the Saints did what everyone expected, bringing him back on a two-year deal that will most likely ensure that he finishes his career in New Orleans. While Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara both had fantastic seasons, leading to much more diversity in the Saints offense, Brees was still the team’s engine, throwing for more than 4,000 passing yards for the 12th consecutive season. His 23 touchdown passes were the fewest he had thrown since 2005, but the 39-year-old can still get the job done.Where he went: Several news media reports indicate that Andrew Norwell, a guard, will sign with the Jaguars on the largest contract ever for a player of his position. He is also expected to break records for average money per season and guaranteed money.What that means: The Carolina Panthers were unwilling to pay money more typically associated with offensive tackles to a guard, but the Jaguars saw a good fit for the first-team All-Pro player. He immediately upgrades Jacksonville’s line and should make life considerably easier for Leonard Fournette, the team’s rookie running back who had 1,040 rushing yards and nine touchdowns as a rookie despite inconsistent work from the team’s interior linemen.Where he went: It is expected that Allen Robinson, a 24-year-old wide receiver, will sign a three-year deal with the Bears, where he will try to aid in the development of the team’s young quarterback, Mitchell Trubisky.What that means: Robinson was well on his way to being considered a top-flight receiver after he finished the 2015 season with 80 catches for 1,400 yards and 14 touchdowns. He slowed down some in 2016, and missed all but one game in 2017 because of a torn A.C.L., but he is still young and, at 6 feet 3 inches and 220 pounds, he provides a big target for Trubisky.Where he went: All signs are pointing toward Sammy Watkins, the 24-year-old wide receiver, signing with the Kansas City Chiefs after just one season with the Los Angeles Rams.What that means: He has not quite lived up to the hype generated by his sophomore season in 2015, but Watkins had bursts of production for the Rams last season, and he gives the Chiefs another burner on offense alongside Tyreek Hill and Kareem Hunt. Kansas City’s offense may be fairly inconsistent as Patrick Mahomes gets used to the starting quarterback job, but the strong-armed Mahomes should not have to worry about overthrowing many players this year.Where he went: Danny Amendola, an undersized 32-year-old wide receiver, is on the verge of signing with the Miami Dolphins, where he is expected to be one of two additions to a new-look offense along with Albert Wilson, formerly of the Chiefs.What that means: Amendola was a fan favorite and a frequent target for Tom Brady in the passing game, but the oft-injured receiver has never had production that matched his level of fame. Last season was just the third time in his nine seasons that Amendola played in as many as 15 games, but he did well with that opportunity, catching 61 passes for 659 yards. The highlight of his season was putting up 152 receiving yards in New England’s loss to Philadelphia in Super Bowl LII. The thought of a breakout season at this point for the former Texas Tech star is a little unrealistic, but he can make a big play on occasion, which could prove useful for Miami. Wilson, at 25, has more potential for career growth, but he is also much less of a sure thing.Where he went: As has been known for a few days, Richard Sherman, the 29-year old cornerback who has starred for the Seattle Seahawks for the last seven seasons, is headed to San Francisco to bring a veteran presence to a youthful team.What that means: Sherman is working his way back from a tear of his Achilles’ tendon, but the 49ers must have been confident that he can regain his explosiveness since they have agreed to pay him $13 million in 2018. The contract is structured to help the team if Sherman does not perform, but he will bring intelligence and swagger to a defense that is still firmly in rebuilding mode.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersAt least three more quarterbacks are reportedly visiting this week with the Washington Redskins, who hold the No. 15 pick in this month's NFL Draft.NFL Network said Duke's Daniel Jones, Ohio State's Dwayne Haskins and Northwestern's Clayton Thorson all have meetings scheduled with the Redskins, who have already hosted Drew Lock of Missouri and Jarrett Stidham of Auburn.Jones will visit Wednesday night and Thursday, Thorson meets with the team Wednesday, and Haskins is due sometime this week, according to NFL Network.West Virginia's Will Grier is also expected at Redskins Park in the coming days, according to NBC Sports Washington.Washington appears poised to add a rookie passer to pair with veterans Case Keenum and Colt McCoy, with Alex Smith questionable to return from his leg injury in 2019.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Dallas Cowboys and franchise-tagged defensive end DeMarcus Lawrence agreed to a five-year contract, the team announced Friday.Multiple media outlets reported the deal is worth $105 million, with $65 million guaranteed and more money in the first year ($31.1 million) than any non-quarterback contract in NFL history, breaking the mark set by Khalil Mack last fall.According to The MMQB, the deal also sets new benchmarks among defensive players in percentage of total and full guarantees on a long-term contract. Mack, the NFL's highest-paid defender at $23.5 million annually, received $90 million guaranteed for injury and $60 million fully guaranteed at signing.Earlier Friday, NFL Network reported Lawrence and the Cowboys were making progress after negotiations appeared to be stalled last week.Dallas executive vice president Stephen Jones said last week the sides were at an "impasse," adding, "We're apart. But certainly optimistic. ... We'll continue to chop wood."The Cowboys tagged Lawrence in March for the second year in a row, giving them until July 15 to sign him to a long-term extension. Lawrence played the 2018 season on his $17.1 million tender, and he could have made $20.5 million on the tag in 2019, but reports had indicated he was unlikely to participate in training camp if he didn't receive a long-term extension.Lawrence, who turns 27 on April 28, reportedly was seeking a multiyear deal worth upward of the $20.5 million tag amount. He also reportedly planned to delay the shoulder surgery he needs until a long-term resolution was reached, which could explain why there was urgency to reach a deal now and not closer to the July 15 deadline.Over the past two seasons, Lawrence has a combined 25 sacks, 49 quarterback hits and 122 tackles. The Cowboys selected the Boise State product in the second round of the 2014 NFL Draft.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCOLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Forrest Gregg, the great Hall of Fame lineman for the mighty Green Bay Packers of the 1960s that Vince Lombardi called the "finest player I ever coached," died Friday at age 85.Barbara Gregg said her husband of 59 years died in Colorado Springs from complications of Parkinson's disease."I lost my sweetheart this morning," she said. "It's awful. He died in my arms."She said that in the last two weeks her husband received a constant flow of calls from former teammates and players telling him he'd made such a big difference in their lives."I'm overwhelmed at the amount of people that loved Forrest, of the number of players that said he made men out of them," she said. "Forrest loved people. He loved everybody. He loved his children. He loved me. And it just broke my heart. My heart is broken."She said the funeral will be sometime next week in Colorado Springs and open to the public.Other survivors include their son, Forrest Gregg Jr., of Cincinnati, and daughter, Karen Gregg-Spehar, of Santa Fe, New Mexico.Hall of Fame president David Baker described Gregg, who was enshrined in 1977, as a "giant" who "exemplified greatness during a legendary career.""He was the type of player who led by example and, in doing so, raised the level of play of all those around him," Baker said. "Forrest symbolized many great traits and virtues that can be learned from this game to inspire people from all walks of life."The flag at the hall will be flown at half-staff in Gregg's honor.Gregg, who earned the nickname "Iron Man" for playing in a then-record 188 consecutive games during his career, was diagnosed with Parkinson's in October 2011. He quickly embarked on a campaign to raise public awareness about the incurable disease, urging others to seek treatment early enough to delay the degenerative effects on both the mind and body.His family and his neurologist said the disease may have been related to numerous concussions he suffered during his playing career in the 1950s at SMU, and from 1956-71 with the Packers and Dallas Cowboys.Gregg never blamed football for his health ailments, however. He refused to join concussion lawsuits against the NFL and said he still would have chosen to play the sport if he'd known there would be a hefty price to pay later in life.In an interview with The Associated Press in 2013, Gregg said he didn't begrudge those who sued the league, but he had his pensions from his playing and coaching days, and "I don't need anything from anybody but what I earned."A guard and tackle, Gregg is one of four NFL players to win a-half dozen NFL championships, including the first two Super Bowls with the Packers. Gregg finished his career with another Super Bowl title with the Cowboys in 1971. The six-time All-Pro and nine-time Pro Bowler was elected to the NFL's all-decade team of the 1960s and to its 75th anniversary team.He went on to coach in the NFL for 11 years with the Browns (1975-77), Bengals (1980-83) and Packers (1984-87).Bengals president Mike Brown on Friday recalled his good friend as one who got the best out of his players."He was demanding. The players didn't try to cut corners," Brown said in a statement. "They went out and did what they had to do, and what we were doing worked. We were somewhat ahead of the curve at the time."Packers coach Matt LeFleur tweeted a famous photo of a mud-caked Gregg and wrote, "I'd like to extend my deepest sympathies to the family of a true Packers legend, Forrest Gregg. This picture has been hanging in my home office for the last 10 years and serves as a great reminder of what a tough competitor Forrest was."After playing 15 NFL seasons, Gregg won 75 games as an NFL head coach and guided the Bengals to their first Super Bowl during the 1981 season, when they lost 26-21 to Joe Montana and the San Francisco 49ers.Yet, "the finest bunch of players I was ever around," Gregg told The AP in 2013, "were the courageous kids at SMU" that went just 3-19 from 1989-90.Gregg was hired at his alma mater to restore integrity to an SMU program that was handed the "death penalty" in the mid-1980s for paying players. They went 2-9 in 1989 upon their return and 1-10 the next year, after which Gregg became SMU's athletic director."That was one of the most enjoyable times of my football life," Gregg told The AP. "Those kids restored dignity to the Hilltop."Going public with his Parkinson's diagnosis to promote understanding of the disease that affects more than 1 million Americans, "was probably helpful a little bit," said Dr. Rajeev Kumar of the Rocky Mountain Movement Disorders Center and the Parkinson's expert who diagnosed Gregg in 2011. "It's always good when somebody who's known and respected lends their weight to the importance of research and education."Gregg suffered countless concussions during his college and pro seasons, and Kumar said those may very well have been the trigger to Parkinson's, although there's no way to know for sure.Gregg continued to cast a dignified, larger-than-life presence even as the disease took its toll, stooping his once granite shoulders and turning his booming baritone into a halting whisper over the last few years.In his last interview with The AP he said he hardly recognized the NFL anymore because it was so different from the sport he played and coached. Despite that, his love for the game endured.He lauded commissioner Roger Goodell for making safety a priority and praised the league for enhancing its concussion protocol and cracking down on illegal hits to the head, measures he prayed would lead to less suffering as today's players age.______AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHeisman Trophy winner Kyler Murray reportedly headed to Phoenix on Tuesday for another meeting with the Arizona Cardinals, who hold the No. 1 pick in this month's draft.The NFL Network reported that the former Oklahoma quarterback and his agent are visiting the team on Wednesday. Murray previously met with the Cardinals at the NFL Combine and again last month at his campus workout in Norman, Okla.Murray's agent, Erik Burkhardt, also represents Cardinals head coach Kliff Kingsbury.Arizona has met with other potential top picks, including Ohio State defensive end Nick Bosa and Alabama defensive tackle Quinnen Williams.Murray passed for 4,361 yards and 42 touchdowns and rushed for 1,001 yards and 12 touchdowns in 14 games last season for the Sooners.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard GoldsteinDwight Clark, the wide receiver whose spectacular last-minute leaping touchdown reception, known as “The Catch,” propelled the San Francisco 49ers toward the first N.F.L. championship in their history and ushered in their dominance of the league through the 1980s, died on Monday in Whitefish, Mont. He was 61.His death was announced by his wife, Kelly, on his Twitter account. He revealed in March 2017 that he had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the degenerative nerve-cell disorder known as Lou Gehrig’s disease.Clark was only a 10th-round pick by the 49ers in the 1979 N.F.L. draft, having caught just three touchdown passes playing for Clemson. But, teaming up with the future Hall of Fame quarterback Joe Montana, he became a leading pro receiver.With 58 seconds remaining in the January 1982 National Football Conference championship game between the underdog 49ers and the Dallas Cowboys on a soggy Candlestick Park field, San Francisco had the football on the Dallas 6-yard line, trailing by 6 points. It was third down with 3 yards to go.Montana, who had engineered a long closing drive, rolled to his right while pursued by several Cowboy defenders and threw an off-balance toss into the rear right corner of the end zone. Clark, who was 6 feet 4 inches tall and had already caught a touchdown pass in the game, went high for the ball and snared it with his fingertips to tie the game. The extra point gave the 49ers a 28-27 lead.“It’s a madhouse at Candlestick, with 51 seconds left,” the play-by-play announcer Vin Scully said.The Cowboys were in 49er territory in the final seconds. But their quarterback, Danny White, fumbled while trying to pass, the 49ers recovered, and the 49ers, a franchise that had gone 2-12 two seasons earlier, had conquered the N.F.L.’s glamour team of the time.“Everson Walls was right beside me; he had me covered,” Clark told the NFL Network long afterward, referring to the Cowboy defensive back. “I remember seeing the ball coming and thinking, ‘Wow, that’s pretty high.’ ”The 49ers went on to defeat the Cincinnati Bengals, 26-21, in Super Bowl XVI, for the first of four championships they would win in the 1980s.Dwight Edward Clark was born on Jan. 8, 1957, in Kinston, N.C. He was recruited by Clemson; the team already had some outstanding ends, so the coaches tried to convert him to a defensive back. He was unhappy enough to consider transferring, but he was finally allowed to play offense.He caught just 33 passes for the Clemson Tigers from 1976 to 1978. But the 49ers’ coach, Bill Walsh, on a visit to scout Steve Fuller, the Tigers’ quarterback — who would also go on to play professionally — noticed Clark playing catch with Fuller and was impressed with his moves. The 49ers took him as the 249th pick of the 1979 draft.Clark played with the 49ers for nine seasons, amassed 6,750 yards in receptions for 48 touchdowns, played in two Pro Bowl games and was named a first-team All-Pro in 1982.He also played on the 49ers’ 1984 team, which defeated the Miami Dolphins in the Super Bowl. He retired after the 1987 season and missed the team’s 1988 and 1989 Super Bowl championship seasons.Clark was later director of football operations for the 49ers and the second Cleveland Browns franchise.In addition to his wife, his survivors included a daughter, Casey, and two sons, Riley and Mac, from a previous marriage.By the early 1990s, Clark’s catch had become the most requested clip in the archives of NFL Films, which was charging up to $5,000 for its use.“It’s the most romantic moment we’ve captured in football in the past 25 years,” Steve Sabol, the president of NFL Films, told The New York Times in 1993. “It symbolized the decline of America’s Team and the rise of the team of the ’80s.”The 49ers’ former owner, Eddie DeBartolo Jr., honored Clark last October during a game against the Cowboys, inviting many of his former teammates for a reunion. Clark addressed the fans from a suite at Levi’s Stadium, and the team gave away T-shirts with an image of “The Catch.”Mr. DeBartolo, who owned a ranch in Whitefish, wanted to have Clark and his family close to him as his disease progressed, and at his behest the Clarks moved to Whitefish in March from their home in Santa Cruz, Calif.Late in April, Mr. DeBartolo brought more than two dozen former 49ers to his ranch to join Clark in what became a final reunion.“It would be hard to say I’ve had a bad life, even though I’ve had a bad break now,” Clark said in a video commissioned from NFL Films for the occasion, Sports Illustrated reported. “I just don’t think I would change anything.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFormer rugby player Christian Wade has been allocated to the Buffalo Bills as part of the NFL's International Player Pathway Program, the team announced on Monday.The 5-foot-8, 190-pound Wade was a highly decorated rugby star in the United Kingdom, having played for the national team at the U16, U18 and U20 levels, as well as making the British and Irish Lions squad. He retired from the rugby union last year to pursue playing in the NFL.Wade's 82 tries (touchdowns) in Premiership Rugby, mostly as a ballcarrier, is third all-time and he has been designated as a running back with the Bills.Wade, 27, is one of seven international athletes from five countries who have been training in Florida with the goal of landing one of four placements among AFC East teams this offseason. He participated in a pro day last week, where he was timed at 4.53 seconds in the 40-yard dash.The four clubs will be allowed to carry an extra player (91 total) during training camp and, should the player not make the final roster, will also receive an extra practice squad spot for the allotted player. However, those placed on the practice squad with the international player exemption will be ineligible to be activated during the season.The International Player Pathway Program began in 2017 and rotates through divisions each year.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Pittsburgh Steelers' former franchise receiver took a Twitter swipe at the team's new franchise receiver on Sunday.The Steelers' newest top wideout is not pleased, and not staying quiet.Nearly a month after the Steelers traded seven-time Pro Bowl wideout Antonio Brown to the Oakland Raiders after a contentious few months, including his absence from the team's season finale, Brown sparked a Twitter spat with ex-teammate Juju Smith-Schuster when commenting on a fan post on social media.Brown had been tagged on a posted image with the header touting the 22-year-old Smith-Schuster as the Steelers' 2018 team MVP. Brown's Twitter response blamed Smith-Schuster for his crucial fumble late in a Week 16 loss at New Orleans, saying he "fumbled the whole post season in the biggest game of year."Smith-Schuster caught wind of the post and tweeted, "Keep your emotions off the internet," followed by a series of tweets referencing Brown."All I ever did was show that man love and respect from the moment I got to the league," Smith-Schuster tweeted. "I was genuinely happy for him too when he got traded to Oakland w/ a big contract, and now he takes shots at me on social media?"Smith-Schuster continued, tweeting, "Crazy how big that ego got to be to take shots at people who show you love!"Smith-Schuster then posted a quote from famous author Mark Twain that read, "Never argue with a fool. Onlookers may not be able to tell the difference."Brown, 30, and Smith-Schuster were Pittsburgh teammates for the younger wideout's first two NFL seasons in 2017-18. Publicly, Smith-Schuster has supported Brown, but he has also voiced strong support for Brown's former quarterback, Ben Roethlisberger. Brown and Roethlisberger reportedly had a practice dispute heading into the Steelers' Week 17 game against Cincinnati.That apparent argument devolved into Brown missing the Steelers' final game, despite their playoff fates being on the line.Surrounding his trade to Oakland in March, Brown has often referenced his problems with Roethlisberger's leadership style. Last month, Smith-Schuster publicly backed his quarterback amid the controversy, saying, "I was so blessed to enter the league and play with a Hall of Fame QB as a 20-year old. Ben has taught me so much, he's a true Leader and I can't wait to rock with my guy this season."Brown tweeted the next day, "Do not listen to any NFL player who haven't got paid yet! They will do and say anything to make sure they going to get paid even if it's compromising integrity or anything ! sad but true."In late January, Smith-Schuster appeared on ESPN's First Take and said the Steelers needed to limit off-field drama and distractions, comparing the team to a family of reality TV stars."I think everyone just needs to stop being divas," Smith-Schuster said. "I think we need to stop being the Kardashians and just play ball."While the wideout wouldn't offer names at the time when asked about which teammates he might be referring to, he said only, "I've learned a lot in that locker room, and I know that I would never want to be a problem to any franchise.""For me, personally, let's focus on the main goal: win a Super Bowl," Smith-Schuster said.In his second season, Smith-Schuster finished with 111 catches for 1,426 yards and seven touchdowns, reaching his first Pro Bowl. Brown caught an NFL-high 15 touchdown passes while catching 104 passes for 1,297 yards. Brown caught 100-plus passes for an NFL-record sixth consecutive season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Carolina Panthers have signed wide receiver Chris Hogan to a one-year deal, the team announced on Friday.Hogan spent the past three seasons with the New England Patriots, winning two titles. He finished last season with 35 catches for 532 yards and three touchdowns.In three seasons with New England, Hogan had 107 catches for 1,651 yards and 12 touchdowns.Undrafted out of Monmoth in 2011, Hogan eventually latched on with the Buffalo Bills and made his NFL debut in 2013.Hogan set the Patriots record for most receiving yards in a single playoff game (180) during the team's Super Bowl run after the 2016 season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe New England Patriots and kicker Stephen Gostkowski have agreed to a two-year contract, ESPN reported Tuesday.The 35-year-old Gostkowski has been the club's kicker since 2006. He replaced Adam Vinatieri, who had departed to the Indianapolis Colts as a free agent.Gostkowski, a four-time Pro Bowl selection, has made 367 of 420 field-goal attempts during 13 seasons with New England. He was 27 of 32 last season.Gostkowski has 1,743 career points, and has led the NFL in scoring on five occasions. He has topped 140 points in a season seven times.He is 39 of 44 on field goals in 28 postseason appearances.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOhio State is ready to unveil new quarterback Justin Fields at the Buckeyes' spring game. On the latest AP Top 25 College Football Podcast, Bill Bender of the Sporting News joins AP's Ralph Russo to chat about the new-look Buckeyes. What will Ryan Day's influence on the team be as he takes over for Urban Meyer. Plus, how Jim Harbaugh and Michigan are trying to finally catch up with Ohio State.Bender and Russo discuss last three of last season's surprise teams — Washington State, Syracuse and Missouri — and try to figure out which one is best positioned to sustain its success.Also, Nick Saban went on rant that wasn't all that ranty about players leaving early for the NFL. What triggered the Alabama coach?___Follow Ralph D. Russo at https://twitter.com/ralphDrussoAP and listen at https://podcastone.com/AP-Top-25-College-Football-Podcast___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Philadelphia Eagles announced the signings Tuesday of three former Alliance of American Football players to one-year contracts.Quarterback Luis Perez and wide receivers Charles Johnson and Greg Ward became available when the AAF ceased operations last week, just eight weeks into its inaugural season.Perez, 24, passed for 1,461 yards (third in the AAF) with five touchdowns and six interceptions in eight games with the Birmingham Iron.Johnson, 30, led the league in receptions (45) and receiving yards (687) and caught five touchdowns in eight games with the Orlando Apollos.Ward, 23, caught 22 passes for 214 yards with the San Antonio Commanders.Ward and Perez have never appeared in an NFL game, while Johnson had 60 catches for 834 yards and two touchdowns in 39 games with the Minnesota Vikings from 2014-16.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperThe Bill Simmons Media Group and its president, Eric Weinberger, “mutually agreed” to part ways two weeks ago, according to a statement released Tuesday by a company spokesman.The announcement comes three months after Weinberger was suspended and placed on indefinite leave following the filing of a lawsuit by a former NFL Network wardrobe stylist that claimed Weinberger had groped her and sent her lewd text messages, including nude pictures of himself.Weinberger, a former NFL Network executive, left the league-owned media company in 2015 to become president of the Bill Simmons Media Group. He has yet to respond publicly to the allegations set forth in the lawsuit. He did not respond to messages seeking comment on Tuesday.When announcing Weinberger’s suspension in December, a Bill Simmons Media Group spokesman said the company was conducting an “internal investigation” of his behavior. The spokesman declined to comment Tuesday on whether the investigation had been completed, or what it found.The Bill Simmons Media Group, founded by Bill Simmons after ESPN announced in 2015 that it had decided not to extend his contract, in 2015, publishes The Ringer, a sports and culture website, and produces podcasts and documentaries.The wardrobe stylist, Jami Cantor, sued the NFL Network in December. Subsequently, ESPN fired two former football players turned analysts, Donovan McNabb and Eric Davis, who were named in the lawsuit. Three current NFL Network analysts, Marshall Faulk, Heath Evans and Ike Taylor, remain suspended amid an ongoing investigation. Warren Sapp, who was also accused of harassment, had previously been fired by the NFL Network in 2015 after his arrest on suspicion of assault and soliciting prostitution.Separately, another NFL Network executive, David Eaton, resigned in December after his history of sending sexually explicit tweets was reported.In 2015 ESPN announced that it would not extend Bill Simmons’s contract with the company. A previous version of this article stated that Simmons was fired.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Atlanta Falcons have signed veteran defensive end Adrian Clayborn to a one-year deal, the team announced Tuesday.Official terms were not disclosed, but multiple outlets reported that he could earn up to $4 million with incentives.Clayborn, who played for the Falcons from 2015-17, appeared in 14 games for the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots last season and tallied 2.5 sacks."I'm excited to be back and help this defense and team anyway I can," he told NFL Network. "It's familiar here and I know I fit into the defense well. At this point that's what's most important."Clayborn, 30, has registered 32.5 career sacks and 90 quarterback hits in 95 games (51 starts) with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Falcons and Patriots.On Nov. 12, 2017, the former first-round pick (20th overall in 2011) set a Falcons record with six sacks in a 27-7 victory against the Dallas Cowboys.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods won his 15th major championship at age 43 by walking away from Augusta National Sunday with his fifth Masters green jacket. Here are some other notable over-40 champions:— Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: Helped push the Los Angeles Lakers to two NBA titles in 1987 and 1988 at the ages of 40 and 41.— Tom Brady: The NFL quarterback Lead the New England Patriots to a Super Bowl win over the Los Angeles Rams in February at 41 years of age.— Chris Chelios: Helped the Detroit Red Wings win the NHL Stanley Cup in 2002 at age 40.— Dale Earnhardt: The NASCAR driver won two Winston Cup titles in 1993 and 1994 at the age of 42 and 43.— George Foreman: He became the heavyweight boxing champion of the world in 1994 at 45 years old by knocking out Michael Moorer.— Ben Hogan: Won three golf majors over the age of 40, including the Masters, U.S. Open and the British Open.— Jack Nicklaus: The Golden Bear is the most obvious comparable to Woods. He won the 1986 Masters at 46 years old. It was his 18th and final major victory.— Dave Winfield: Won a World Series with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1992 at age 41.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperESPN has fired the former N.F.L. players Donovan McNabb and Eric Davis, who worked as radio hosts for the network and who have been accused of sexual misconduct in a lawsuit against the NFL Network, their previous employer.McNabb and Davis are among a group of men accused of sexual harassment or assault in the lawsuit filed by Jami Cantor, a former wardrobe stylist for the NFL Network.ESPN started investigating the allegations about four weeks ago, according to Josh Krulewitz, a network spokesman.Cantor has accused McNabb, the former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback, of sending her sexually inappropriate text messages, and she has alleged that Davis, a former cornerback who won a Super Bowl with the San Francisco 49ers, groped her and made lewd comments. In a first-person story for Sports Illustrated, a makeup artist for the NFL Network, Erin McParland, also accused Davis of groping her.After the allegations in the lawsuit were made public last month, ESPN suspended McNabb and Davis. Both had ESPN radio shows, and McNabb appeared on studio programs like “First Take.”Sports Business Journal first reported McNabb and Davis’s firings.Follow Kevin Draper on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCincinnati Bengals running back Mark Walton surrendered to police in Florida on Thursday, marking his third arrest of 2019.The Miami Herald reported that Walton was arrested on felony charges of carrying a concealed weapon, along with marijuana possession and reckless driving in connection with an incident that occurred March 12 in North Miami-Dade.That evening, police tried to pull over Walton as he drove erratically. When he did park the car, he got out and ran away. He was shot in the back with a stun gun as tried to escape but managed to remove the prongs and vanish, according to the newspaper, citing court documents.A search of the car, which had been rented in Walton's name, resulted in police locating a 9 mm carbine rifle, several loaded clips and 14 grams of marijuana, according to police. He had purchased the weapon legally.On Feb. 16, he was arrested and charged with misdemeanor battery in South Florida.Police said those charges stemmed from an argument he had with a couple at his condominium complex over his car blocking the entrance to the parking garage, the Miami Herald reported.A scuffle occurred when Walton, apparently angry the woman was recording their confrontation on her phone, took the phone from her, according to the Herald. Walton and the woman sustained scratches in the incident.He also was arrested on a misdemeanor marijuana possession charge in January and is awaiting trial.Walton, 22, played his college football at Miami and was taken by the Bengals in the fourth round of the 2018 NFL Draft. He saw limited action, gaining 34 yards on 14 carries.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSOUTH BEND, Ind. — Ian Book came into spring practice with the idea of being out of his comfort zone.At a school that has produced its share of legendary quarterbacks, the 6-foot, 208-pound senior was told by coach Brian Kelly and offensive coordinator Chip Long to push the envelope."I want to make those even harder throws into those smaller windows," Book said after completing a school-record 68.2% of his passes (214 of 314) for 2,628 yards and 19 touchdowns in leading Notre Dame to a playoff berth after a 12-0 regular season. "That's what it takes to be an elite quarterback, to have an elite offense."The season-ending, 30-3 loss to Clemson fuels Book's hunger to be even better. A late-season rib injury that forced him to miss the Florida State game was followed by a three-game span (victories over Syracuse and Southern California before the playoff loss) during which Book's completion rate fell to 56.4%. He was just 17 of 30 for 160 yards against the Tigers, whose nasty defense forced him to scramble over and over again.The message this spring: Get rid of the happy feet, stay in the pocket, go through the reads and take a chance on the throws he dared not to attempt in 2018. Including the deep ones."I expected a lot from Ian this spring," said Long, now in his third year as coordinator. "I told him, 'Hey, challenge it. Challenge the offense. Test your arm.' Ian has been challenging himself with all of his throws. There hasn't been a fear to turn it loose. You've got to push yourself to do that if you want to be considered an elite quarterback."Book took up Long's gauntlet, on the field and in the locker room."I wanted to challenge myself more, but I didn't want to create bad habits or force throws that are not possible," Book said. "I wanted to be more of a vocal leader, something I've been working on a ton. Another was challenging myself on the tighter (pass-catch) windows. The third was going through my full-read progression — the second and third reads are where the tight windows are — and trusting the guys to be in the right spot, trusting the offensive linemen, and staying in the pocket and delivering the football."Kelly and Long said they like what they've seen in more than a dozen practices ahead of Saturday's 90th Blue-Gold game."Vertically, (Book's) throwing the football down the field with accuracy, confidence, movement in the pocket," Kelly said after Book hit junior receiver Michael Young for a touchdown pass on a fourth-and-10 play to end a recent practice. "(He has) ball placement on back-shoulder throws (and there's) a little more air for our guys to adjust to the football. What we can see has been a nice step up for him."Book's teammates have seen the positive changes, too."He's come into spring being 'the guy' with nothing to worry about," said fifth-year slot receiver Chris Finke, who averaged 11.7 yards on 49 receptions that were third behind NFL-bound Mile Boykin (59) and Chase Claypool (50). "He's reading defenses well, delivering throws with confidence."On Tuesday, Book was as accurate as ever with all of his throws, the best a back-shoulder, 40-yard effort to Claypool, a 6-foot-4, 229-pound senior."This spring I would say he's insane consistent," Young said. "It's like ridiculous — the ball is never in the wrong place, the timing is always there, it's never too early, it's never too late. Geesh! I just really can't do no wrong because he's going to make me right."Kelly and Long have been able to turn their attention to 6-foot-5, 225-pound Phil Jurkovec, who saw mop-up action in two games his freshman season but has a clear role as the likely backup this year with Brandon Wimbush's departure to Central Florida as a graduate transfer. Quarterback Brendon Clark, a 6-foot-2, 217-pound true freshman, arrives on campus in June."Phil is a confident guy — and I like it — and he wants to be a great quarterback," Long said. "He's way more confident that he was when he came in last August. The little things every day . all the things a young quarterback needs to do and just keep building confidence in himself."Kelly said he sees Jurkovec mastering those little things."I think (there's been) the natural kind of evolution of a quarterback kind of learning college football at the highest level — some good days followed up by some not-so-good days," Kelly said of Jurkovec. "We're beginning to add a little more with him and we're feeling pretty good that he's making the progress."So is Book, who has lofty goals."You watch any guy in the NFL, it's pretty amazing they are able to stay relaxed in the pocket, go through all their reads and make the right throws," Book said.___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersProsecutors in Houston announced Wednesday they are dismissing their case against defensive end Michael Bennett, who had been accused of shoving an elderly, wheelchair-bound NRG Stadium worker during Super Bowl LI."We dismissed this case in the interest of justice," said Vivian King, chief of staff of the Harris County District Attorney's Office. "After looking at all the evidence, this was the right thing to do."Bennett, now with the New England Patriots, had been facing a felony charge of injury to the elderly, punishable by up to 10 years in prison.The 6-foot-4, 275-pound lineman was accused of pushing and injuring a 66-year-old paraplegic woman as he tried to get onto the field to celebrate with his brother, former Patriots tight end Martellus Bennett, after New England defeated Atlanta on Feb. 5, 2017.Houston police chief Art Acevedo called Bennett "morally bankrupt" when the charges were announced in March 2018."Mr. Bennett may think that because he's an NFL player and some time passed ... he may have thought that, number one, rules don't apply to him, number two, he doesn't have to respect the dignity of a paraplegic woman who's trying to earn a living," Acevedo said at a news conference.Bennett's attorney, Rusty Hardin, predicted a year ago that the case would ultimately be thrown out."There was no fighting, there was no pushing," Hardin said. "The entire thing is ludicrous. That's what I think we'll find when it's all over."Bennett, a member of the Seattle Seahawks at the time of the alleged incident, played for the Philadelphia Eagles last season and was traded to the Patriots last month.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMONTREAL — McGill University has dropped the name Redmen from its varsity sports teams after receiving complaints that the name is a racial slur.Principal Suzanne Fortier said in a statement Friday that the name had caused pain and alienation for indigenous students at the Canadian university. The change took effect immediately."Today, 'redmen' is widely acknowledged as an offensive term for Indigenous peoples, as evidenced by major English dictionaries," Fortier said.In recent years, American sports teams at amateur, college and professional levels have faced similar criticisms.Last year, the Cleveland Indians baseball team removed Chief Wahoo as its logo. Stanford, North Dakota, St. John's (also once the Redmen) and Dartmouth are also among the colleges and universities that have dropped Native American nicknames or symbols for their teams.However, longstanding pressure to change the name of the Washington Redskins NFL team has so far been unsuccessful.McGill's decision comes after an internal report revealed deep divisions between students and alumni over the nearly century-old name.Even though the Redmen name was not initially adopted as a reference to indigenous people, the association was made in the 1950s when men's and women's teams came to be nicknamed the "Indians" and "Squaws." Some teams later adopted a logo with an indigenous man wearing a headdress.The student who led the fight against the name told The Canadian Press he was "ecstatic" at the news."I had expected the name change," Tomas Jirousek said in an interview from Prague. "I think if the principal had been actually listening to indigenous community members and students, I think it was the only possible option after, as she said in her email, 'the depth of pain' we feel as indigenous students at the Redmen name."Meanwhile, a group of alumni who opposed the name change said they would never again donate to McGill and would discourage their children from applying to the school.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The losses last weekend by Duke, Gonzaga, Kentucky and Purdue pulled the curtains on their seasons, one painful game short of the Final Four. Those teams that made it to Minneapolis ? The guys from Michigan State, Texas Tech, Auburn and Virginia will be greeted, literally, by giant drapes inside the building where the 2019 champion will be determined.Yes, the bigger and fancier the site, the more complicated the conversion. From the extra speakers to the special center-hung scoreboard to the temporary blinds at U.S. Bank Stadium, turning a football-sized venue into a basketball-friendly facility has become quite the project.That's fitting, of course, because the Final Four has become quite the event."People have said, 'It's a game for an arena,' but trying to go back at this point on the opportunities? Instead of giving approximately 5,000 tickets to each school, they'd be receiving far less than that, and then you've got all of the membership, the other schools that want access and the general public," said L.J. Wright, the NCAA's director of men's basketball championships. "The demand is still here, and so we want to expose and help grow the game through that exposure."When the NCAA first began using an "in-the-round" seating configuration at Ford Field in Detroit in 2009, where the court is placed on the middle of the turf instead of in one of the corners and the entire bowl is used, the minimum-capacity requirement for a Final Four was raised to 60,000 seats.That whittled the candidate pool to the 10 climate-controlled NFL-level venues, which had been sprinkled into the rotation throughout the 1980s and 1990s until the last NBA-sized host was used in East Rutherford, New Jersey, in 1996. There are currently only 10 covered stadiums big enough in the entire country to bid.Nestled into a compact downtown, filled with state-of-the-art amenities and fresh from holding the Super Bowl 14 months ago, U.S. Bank Stadium fits the bill. The not-quite-3-year-old facility's defining feature, though, created an additional challenge for the host. The skyline-facing front of the building is essentially one big picture window, including five of the world's largest pivoting glass doors ranging from 75 to 95 feet high. Then there is the roof, about 60% of which is composed of a lightweight translucent plastic called ETFE .Even on some of the coldest afternoons, like the 2-degree outside temperature at kickoff of the Super Bowl, enough sunlight can stream in to make a television viewer do a double-take and wonder for a second if the game is actually being played in Arizona or Florida."That's what makes this building unique. That's what makes it beautiful. That's what really makes it the gold standard in the NFL. Unfortunately, that is also what makes it very complex for us," said Patrick Talty, the general manager for stadium operator SMG. "Because of that competitive nature, needing the light to be the same for all teams in all situations, we then have to take our biggest asset away."To keep the glare off the TV cameras and out of the eyes of the free-throw shooters, a darkening plan is mandated for each bidding venue. There is no issue for many of them, but at U.S. Bank Stadium, this sleek, steep and ship-shaped $1.1 billion home of the Minnesota Vikings, there is 460,000 square feet to cover.The $4.6 million project, covered by the building's capital improvement fund, was so big the Minnesota Sports Facilities Authority split it between two manufacturers: theater-style curtains for the front and sailboat-like textile for the roof . Just one of the custom-made ceiling darkening panels is 10 feet wide and up to 370 feet long. The setup took five to seven days for 20 to 25 workers, with a similar timeframe for teardown.The cost of the blinds and the altering of the building's identity have prompted some complaints from the public, but the blinds will be reused for concerts and conventions and are expected to last for the life of the stadium, MSFA chairman Michael Vekich said.For now, the fabric will help transform the colossal structure into an environment as close to an on-campus arena as possible, if that's possible for an event that has averaged about 72,800 fans in attendance over the last 10 years. Putting 600 students from each school in $40 floor seats behind each basket was one way the NCAA has tried to increase the energy, along with subtly amplified noise for seats that are the farthest from the court so the swishes, clangs and squeaks can still be audible."Final Fours in the past used to be a little stagnant because you'd get people who sit on their hands who aren't as energetic," Wright said. "When you think of college basketball, you think of students on their feet and jumping. They're involved. They're a part of the event, so that's been a special thing."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By David OshinskyBIG GAME The NFL in Dangerous TimesBy Mark Leibovich Illustrated. 373 pp. Penguin Press. $28.When the Hall of Fame running back Earl Campbell retired in 1986 following eight seasons of highlight-reel collisions, defenders throughout the National Football League breathed a respectful sigh of relief. No one dished out more punishment than Campbell or did less to avoid it. “Every time you hit him,” a linebacker said, “you lower your own I.Q.” Campbell uses a metal walker today — not surprising for someone who’s had both knees replaced, endured multiple back surgeries and been treated for substance abuse. “I think if I’d gotten a real physical like they do now, CAT scans and everything,” he admits, “probably I wouldn’t have been able to play.”That thought rankles Campbell, who views his battered frame as a proud reminder of a game unblemished by silly rules and complaints. “I can’t play because I’ve got a hangnail. … I don’t play because my head hurt,” he says, mocking the current combatants. “That wouldn’t have got the job done back in my day.”Of course, pro football remains a dangerous game. The average career is 3.3 years and shrinking, as more players retire early because of injury or fear of lasting damage. Still, Campbell’s words reflect a growing sense of unease about the league. Too violent, too soft, too nationalistic, too unpatriotic — is pro football in trouble?There was a day, writes The New York Times Magazine’s chief national correspondent, Mark Leibovich, in “Big Game,” a gossipy, insightful and wickedly entertaining journey through the N.F.L. sausage factory, when the league could make sticky problems disappear. Not anymore. Since 2014, when his story begins, pro football has been shredded by scandal, from the video gone viral of the running back Ray Rice knocking his fiancée senseless to the murder conviction and suicide of the tight end Aaron Hernandez, whose multiple concussions produced “the most severe case” of chronic traumatic encephalopathy that medical experts had ever seen in someone so young. Meantime, the N.F.L.’s marquee player was suspended for (allegedly) deflating footballs, while a second-string quarterback ignited a firestorm by kneeling in protest during the national anthem.Who’s minding this mess? Leibovich starts at the top. An effective N.F.L. commissioner must be adept at two things, he contends. First, manage the needs of the billionaire team owners, which the current commissioner, Roger Goodell, does quite nicely. Second, protect the league from serious scandals and lesser embarrassments, which he seems unable to master. The gaffe-prone Goodell calls to mind the words supposedly uttered by Winston Churchill about Secretary of State John Foster Dulles: “A bull who carries his china shop along with him.” Two years ago, with the concussion issue now a national story, Goodell, the father of twin girls, was asked whether he would allow a son to play football. Yes, he replied, “because of the values” one gets from the game. A fine answer, until he added: “There is risk in life. There is risk in sitting on the couch.”These words don’t quite rise to the musings of the Dallas Cowboys owner, Jerry Jones, who compared the concussion flap to “a pimple on a baby’s ass,” but they did arouse considerable suspicion about the league’s intentions. Moreover, Leibovich says, they speak to a problem that continues to dog the unscripted Goodell, as when he credited the players for getting arrested less frequently in 2015 than in previous years. Who would even think to touch the subject, much less praise those lucky enough to avoid jail?Blunders aside, Goodell has been good for the owners, who pay him about $40 million a year. He’s won them multibillion-dollar television contracts while cheerleading their coldhearted “relocation” of teams — the Rams, Raiders and Chargers, most recently — to larger-market cities. But Goodell’s greatest gift has been to turn a seasonal game into a year-round bonanza. Fans now spend months anticipating the once mundane N.F.L. draft. If a Sunday triple-header, a Monday night game and an occasional Saturday contest don’t suffice, one can turn on “Thursday Night Football.” Still not enough? Join a fantasy league on NFL.com. There are no days off anymore.The owners, for the most part, are Republican, conservative and warily pro-Trump. Only a few are women — usually the wife or daughter of a deceased male owner. Neither age nor infirmity is a disqualifier to these popes of football, whose tenure generally ends at death. Among Leibovich’s favorites is the New York Jets owner, Woody Johnson, heir to the J & J fortune and a Trump megadonor currently serving as our ambassador to Britain. A mere pup at 71, the Woodman strikes Leibovich, if not long-suffering Jets fans, as the cheerfully inept custodian of treasures he didn’t quite earn — “like an overgrown third grader who collects toy trains and rotten quarterbacks.” Another is Johnson’s polar opposite, Jerry Jones, 75, a self-made oilman with a cartoon-size ego. Jones is a journalist’s dream. He has no filter, he’ll talk to anybody, and he favors down-home “Jerryisms” too crude to be quoted here.In one revealing sequence, Leibovich asks Jones and the New England Patriots owner, Robert Kraft, 77, if they’d rather win another Super Bowl or be enshrined in the N.F.L. Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio. Kraft, who sports five Super Bowl rings but is not a Hall of Famer, gives the diplomatic answer: another Super Bowl. Jones, a three-time Super Bowl winner who is a Hall of Famer, responds like the honest megalomaniac he is: Hall of Fame.It’s worth noting that Jones was interviewed on the Cowboys’ regal team bus while drinking Johnnie Walker Blue from a 24-ounce plastic cup “filled — and refilled — to the top.” Leibovich tried but failed to keep pace. His last memory is of Jones heading to a bar for some beers and cigars. “This man’s liver belongs in Canton,” he marvels.Though a lifelong Patriots fan (like me), Leibovich hasn’t much good to say about Kraft or Coach Bill Belichick — partly, one suspects, because their fawning embrace of Donald Trump makes him queasy. (The more discreet Tom Brady scores some points for having once ignored Trump’s creepy public invitation to pursue his daughter Ivanka.) Fort Belichick is “a paranoid and joyless place,” we are told, run by “a mumbling control freak” and an increasingly distracted owner. Kraft, a widower, is now a regular on the Manhattan/Hamptons social scene. “Boston is a village compared to New York,” he confides to Leibovich — words he’ll probably come to regret. The team trademark — “We Are All Patriots” — is a running joke among the players. “Oh yeah, we’re all Patriots,” one former player remarks, “until Belichick finds someone cheaper.”Brady, meanwhile, has hired a controversial trainer-turned-guru as a gesture of independence. His family, fearing for his safety, is urging him to retire. At 41, Brady is noncommittal. He has no real hobbies; he exists to play football. “If you want to compete with me,” he tells Leibovich, “you have to give up your life.” Which Brady has done. “It will end badly,” his father, Tom Sr., predicts. “It’s a cold business.”The 2018 N.F.L. season is shaping up poorly. TV ratings have declined 17 percent in the past few years, the most alarming drop registered among hard-core fans — white, male, 50-ish — dismayed by the protests of black players over police brutality and other race-charged issues. To compound matters, the man stirring the pot most vigorously has been trying for decades to become a team owner, without success. He also happens to be the president of the United States. As payback, perhaps, he’s been among the loudest critics of the new rules to protect players from concussions, complaining that they’ve sissified the game. Now he’s pressuring the league to suspend any “son of a bitch” who kneels during the national anthem, adding, as if the protesters were illegal immigrants, that “maybe they shouldn’t be in the country.” The owners, clearly flummoxed, have been unable to find common ground or to pacify their fellow billionaire tormentor, who recently bragged to Jones that the dispute is a “very winning” issue for him. Opinion polls show he may be right.Reading “Big Game” — a sparkling narrative — one gets the sense that, “dangerous times” aside, the N.F.L. will survive on the magnetism of the sport it so clumsily represents. Forget the greedy owners, the controversies, the Trumpian eruptions. Think instead of the last two Super Bowls — the historic Patriots comeback followed by the upset of mighty New England by the storybook Philadelphia Eagles, a perennial doormat. Pro football, minus the baggage, can be electrifying and redemptive. It’s September, time for kickoff.David Oshinsky, a professor of history at N.Y.U. and director of the division of medical humanities at N.Y.U. Langone Health, is the author of “Bellevue: Three Centuries of Medicine and Mayhem at America’s Most Storied Hospital.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — Some 17.4 million Americans watched the first episode of the final season of television's "Game of Thrones" - a record audience for the medieval fantasy series, cable channel HBO said on Monday.HBO said Sunday's live U.S. television audience and viewers on its HBO GO and HBO NOW apps exceeded the previous series high of 16.9 million viewers for the Season 7 finale two years ago.On social media, Sunday's premiere was also the most-tweeted-about episode of the show ever, with more than 5 million Tweets, and 11 million mentions throughout the course of the weekend, HBO said in a statement.All of the top 10 global Twitter trends late Sunday evening were about the episode.The series set among warring families in the fictional kingdom of Westeros, which began in 2007, has become HBO's biggest hit.Season 7 averaged 32.8 million U.S. viewers per episode when delayed viewing was counted and HBO said it expected the Season 8 average to "grow considerably"."Game of Thrones" is available in over 150 countries worldwide, but HBO said viewing data is not easily retrieved in many of those markets, making a global figure impossible to calculate.Details of the final season have been kept a closely guarded secret, boosting anticipation. The most-tweeted moment from Sunday's show came when popular "Thrones" character Jon Snow (played by Kit Harington) learned the truth about his parents, and the fact that his love interest, Daenerys Targaryen (Emilia Clarke), is in fact his aunt.Despite its avid fan base, "Game of Thrones" is far from the biggest television event in the United States. The annual NFL Super Bowl attracts about 100 million viewers and the 2019 Oscars ceremony in February was watched on television by 29.6 million Americans.The final episode of "Game of Thrones" will air on May 19. (Additional reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Leslie Adler and Tom Brown)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWide receiver Seth Roberts, a day after getting released by the Oakland Raiders, has agreed to sign with the Baltimore Ravens on a one-year deal, pending a physical, the team announced.Roberts, 28, was set to make $4.45 million this season with the Raiders.He caught 45 passes for 494 yards and two touchdowns in 15 games last season (seven starts) for Oakland. He was released Thursday, a day after the Raiders signed wide receiver Ryan Grant. The Raiders have also added Antonio Brown, Tyrell Williams and J.J. Nelson to their receiving corps.Raiders quarterback Derek Carr went to Instagram on Thursday to thank Roberts for his production while they played together in Oakland."I appreciate everything you did for our team," Carr wrote. "From game winning touchdown after game winning touchdown. Your relentless work ethic that took you from an Undrafted rookie to someone who made a team, earned a starting spot, and always showed up when I needed you. From catching passes during the defensives (sic) set of plays every single day, to you even trying to run me over on a reverse haha! Thank you!"After cutting Michael Crabtree and seeing free agent John Brown sign with the Buffalo Bills, the Ravens will need additional experience among their receiving corps. Willie Snead IV (211 career receptions for 2,622 yards) and Chris Moore (44 for 490) are the team's only other wide receivers with a regular-season NFL catch.Roberts has 158 receptions, 1,826 receiving yards and 13 touchdowns during his four-year career, all with the Raiders. Undrafted out of West Alabama in 2014, he spent his rookie year on the Raiders' practice squad.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday said he would award Tiger Woods the Presidential Medal of Freedom after the golfer won the Masters for the fifth time on Sunday."Spoke to @TigerWoods to congratulate him on the great victory he had in yesterday’s @TheMasters, & to inform him that because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM," Trump tweeted.The victory on Sunday was one of the greatest comebacks in sports history, as the 43-year-old ended an 11-year major title drought having overcome personal and professional setbacks including a highly-public divorce and multiple surgeries. The one-stroke win at Augusta National led to an outpouring of support from sports greats and politicians including Trump.Trump, an avid golfer, and Woods have played together in the past including in February when the pair joined golf great Jack Nicklaus for a round at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Florida. Trump appeared to follow the action at this year's Masters closely, tweeting well-wishes to the field on Saturday and encouraging people to tune in when Woods had the lead with just two holes left to play on Sunday. "Congratulations to @TigerWoods, a truly Great Champion!" Trump tweeted shortly after Woods sank a short putt to secure his 15th major title. "Love people who are great under pressure. What a fantastic life comeback for a really great guy!" he added later.The medal is the highest civilian honor in the United States and is given annually to people who have made outstanding contributions to the security or national interests of the country, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.Since taking office Trump has given the award to several athletes including former professional NFL players Roger Staubach and Alan Page and late professional baseball player George Herman "Babe" Ruth, Jr. (Reporting by Susan Heavey and Rory Carroll; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Toby Davis)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Cincinnati Bengals have waived running back Mark Walton after his third arrest of 2019, the team announced on Saturday."It's important for our team to get off to a fresh start as we begin the 2019 season," said head coach Zac Taylor in the statement."For that reason, we felt it best if we move forward without Mark Walton. We hope his situation gets resolved, but we don't want to take anything away from the good work that so many other players have already begun to demonstrate."Walton surrendered to police in Florida on Thursday on a felony charge of carrying a concealed weapon, along with marijuana possession and reckless driving in connection with an incident that occurred March 12 in North Miami-Dade.That evening, police tried to pull over Walton as he drove erratically. When he did park the car, he got out and ran away. He was shot in the back with a stun gun as he tried to escape but managed to remove the prongs and vanish, according to the Miami Herald, citing court documents.A search of the car, which had been rented in Walton's name, resulted in police locating a 9 mm carbine rifle, several loaded clips and 14 grams of marijuana, according to police. He had purchased the weapon legally.On Feb. 16, he was arrested and charged with misdemeanor battery in South Florida.Police said those charges stemmed from an argument he had with a couple at his condominium complex over his car blocking the entrance to the parking garage, the Miami Herald reported.A scuffle occurred when Walton, apparently angry the woman was recording their confrontation on her phone, took the phone from her, according to the Herald. Walton and the woman sustained scratches in the incident.He also was arrested on a misdemeanor marijuana possession charge in January and is awaiting trial.Walton, 22, played his college football at Miami and was taken by the Bengals in the fourth round of the 2018 NFL Draft. He saw limited action, gaining 34 yards on 14 carries.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperFox is going all-in on the N.F.L., and for the first time this year will televise the N.F.L. draft, according to multiple people with knowledge of the plans. Fox and the NFL Network will team up for a joint production, mixing talent from both networks on a co-branded broadcast. One feed will appear on both networks, the people said.Fox will televise the first round on Thursday, April 26, and the second and third rounds on Friday, April 27, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. It is unclear whether Fox will televise the last four rounds of the draft on April 28.ESPN, which has broadcast the draft each year since 1980, will continue to do so. Since 2006, both ESPN and the NFL Network have broadcast separate productions of the draft. Last year, 6.7 million viewers watched ESPN’s coverage of the first round, while 2.5 million watched on the NFL Network.The N.F.L., Fox and ESPN declined to comment. News of Fox televising the draft was first reported by ProFootballTalk.Last month, the N.F.L. announced that Fox had won the rights to broadcast 11 games of “Thursday Night Football” for the next five seasons. The rights to televise the draft were part of that package, and according to SportsBusinessJournal, Fox will televise the draft for the next five years.In December, the Walt Disney Company — which owns 80 percent of ESPN — agreed to pay $52.4 billion to buy most of 21st Century Fox’s assets, including its 22 regional sports networks, pending regulatory approval. The slimmed down company that remains will include Fox, Fox Sports, Fox News and a few other channels, and will focus on live programming such as sports and news.Despite television ratings for the N.F.L. having fallen 19 percent over the past two seasons, Fox has decided to make the league a cornerstone of its programming. In addition to winning the rights to “Thursday Night Football” and the N.F.L. draft, the network might soon be televising an additional playoff game as well.After being held in New York City for 50 years, the N.F.L. has treated the draft as a traveling circus since 2015, setting up shop in different cities with all manner of fan activities surrounding the actual picks. Last year a reported 70,000 people showed up to the first round in Philadelphia, and this year’s draft is poised to be even bigger, as it will be held at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Tex., the home of the Dallas Cowboys.The draft has evolved into the biggest event of the N.F.L. off-season, and a bridge from the Super Bowl to the combine to the opening of training camp, in no small part because of the efforts of ESPN.For decades, the draft was a sleepy meeting of team representatives in a hotel ballroom surrounded by newspaper reporters. But in 1979, Pete Rozelle, then the commissioner of the N.F.L., teamed with Chet Simmons, the president of ESPN, to televise the draft live. ESPN, then far from the dominant network it is today, was eager for cheap programming to fill time, and turned it into a massive, multiple-day television spectacle.In the beginning, ESPN didn’t pay to televise the draft. After N.F.L. team owners learned how much ESPN was earning from the draft, they demanded the network cover its cost, and then eventually charged a rights fee to televise it, the way it does with games.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMONTERREY, Mexico — The St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds and all of Major League Baseball will have one big fan rooting for them when they come together this weekend at Estadio de Béisbol de Monterrey — Mexican President Andres Manuel López Obrador.López Obrador, who took the oath of office last December, is a devoted baseball fan and is trying hard to help the sport succeed in a country where soccer is still king.The Cardinals and Reds meet for games on Saturday and Sunday, and the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Angels will play another two-game series at the same ballpark in early May.But López Obrador wants baseball to be more than just a couple of big league sets every year."It's well known that baseball is my favorite sport, since I was a kid in my town there was nothing more than baseball," said the 65-year-old López Obrador, who has several videos on YouTube where he shows off a good swing. "I can still play, I can still hit above .300, I played center field when I was younger and had a good arm and covered a lot of ground."MLB began holding regular season games in Mexico in 1996 when the San Diego Padres and Mets played three times. The 1999 season opened with a matchup in Monterrey between the Padres and Colorado. Last May, the Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers played a three-game series at the stadium — Walker Buehler and the Dodgers bullpen combined for a no-hitter.All of those series were a success with sellouts in Monterrey.López Obrador put some action behind his passion and recently created Promobeis, a government office run by Édgar González, a former player who spent a couple of seasons as a Padres second baseman and was Mexico's manager at the World Baseball Classic.Among other things, Promobeis has a goal to have between 60 and 80 Mexican players in the majors. This season, only eight local players started the season on big league rosters, but González — brother of former All-Star Adrian González — believes that he can he can have success because there are over 160 Mexicans in the minors."I love the challenge, it's something that has never been done before and can be a success. I think it's easier to have more Mexican baseball players in the big leagues than players in the NFL. Besides, we believe that we can help to take kids away from the bad habits," González told The Associated Press."We believe that having more players in the majors will help us to grow the sport's popularity. Right now we have a little bit over 160 players in the minors, in the majors right now there are 10 because some of them are constantly been called up or sent down. It's a good number and I believe we can grow in the future and have more players signing with MLB clubs like the Puerto Ricans or the Dominicans," González said.To put the program in motion, González and Promobeis have a $17.5 million budget for 2019. The money will be invested in the opening of 10 baseball academies that are going to be administered by the government."It's going to be great if they support baseball like the president wants. You need to start early in the sport to be successful," said former big league slugger Vinny Castilla, considered one of the all-time great Mexican players. "Baseball is our president*s great passion and that's big news because for all of us that love the sport, he is going to support the sport as much as he can."The idea of having more Mexican players in the big leagues as a way to boost the sport's popularity in the country is not new. MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred has spoken about it on several occasions as a big factor for the country to be considered like a candidate for an expansion franchise in the future.Besides López Obrador's ideas, another door to the majors opened for the Mexicans last March. That's when MLB announced an agreement with the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol that allows all players who are under contract to an LMB team to be able to sign with any MLB club as long the player is at least 25 years old or has six or more years of professional baseball experience abroad."Mexico is an important market for our game, as demonstrated by our series in Monterrey. We look forward to the opportunities to develop more major league players and baseball fans in the country," Manfred said.Even though soccer is considered to be Mexico's national pastime, it was not always like that. Football and baseball took turns last century being the nation's favorites. The NFL has had great success in playing in Mexico, and Fernando Valenzuela helped the country's baseball profile when he ascended with the Dodgers in the 1980s.The Liga Mexicana de Béisbol, established in 1925, had several American greats on its rosters such as Satchel Paige, "Cool Papa" Bell and Josh Gibson, along with the likes of star pitcher Sal Maglie.But eventually Mexican teams were unable to compete with U.S. salaries and the sport's popularity faded as soccer grew in the '60s and early '70s, after Mexico hosted the 1970 World Cup.The success of the government plan to help baseball rise in popularity in Mexico remains to be seen, meanwhile the country has regular season series guaranteed until 2021 that can also help the sport to become more mainstream."It's clear that soccer is the strongest, but we want to compete with them and we want to be able to say that baseball is growing and also that the kids know that they have a chance there," González said."While we try to get more Mexicans in the majors, it's great to have this games every year, it's a great way for kids to look at those athletes and know the discipline required to make it, it becomes aspirational and that can definitively help us."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The toilet paper was already flying at Toomer's Corner, the spot where the biggest celebrations go down when Auburn's sports teams win big.Then, the whistle blew.A foul. Three free throws.A comeback win transformed into a devastating loss.And within seconds, the pain and second-guessing of the final plays flowed from everywhere. From TV: "Man, I want to cry right now ," said Auburn alum Charles Barkley. From Twitter on a non-call: "Were they paid by Virginia? " From the headlines: "Foul Play ."Lost somewhere amid all that agony at Auburn and euphoria in Virginia heading to the NCAA Tournament final was the fact that we've seen all this before.No official is perfect.No instant replay is going to fend off all mistakes.Even when the call is the right one, sports aren't always fair.And when they're being played on the biggest stages, those facts of life are placed out there on vivid, often heart-wrenching display."At that level, you'd hope it's not going to happen because of what's at stake, but it's going to happen," said John O'Suillivan, founder of the Changing The Game Project , which teaches about keeping perspective in youth sports. "It has always happened, and it always will."Virginia earned a date with Texas Tech in Monday's national title game because of the foul and those three free throws, to say nothing of the whistles that weren't blown in the moments before.In Virginia's 63-62 win over Auburn on Saturday, the discussion about whether Samir Doughty fouled Kyle Guy as Guy was shooting a 3-pointer with 0.6 seconds remaining turned out to be the simplest part of the debate.More difficult to untangle: Should that foul have been called under those circumstances? Many see it simply, others point out that worse infractions have been ignored.And what about the Ty Jerome, the Virginia guard who lost the ball, picked it up and then started dribbling again, on the play that came seconds earlier near midcourt? Should that have been whistled? And why didn't the refs call a foul when Bryce Brown grabbed Jerome's jersey as Jerome was trying to re-collect the ball just before he double-dribbled?It all happened in the blink of an eye — much easier to detect, and break down, with the help of super slow-motion and a couple different angles that none of the three officials had the luxury of seeing either while it was happening, or directly after it occurred. It was a judgment (non) call, so it wasn't subject to being reviewed, the way many tough, late-game calls are under the rules in college hoops."I would challenge anyone complaining about that call, I'd say, 'Did you recognize that in real time?'" said Dean Blandino, the former vice president of officiating for the NFL. "It's just one of those unusual plays that happen. When I used to be in officials' meetings, we would always say, 'Something is going to come up that's never happened before, so you just have to anticipate that.'"But how to react to something that's never happened before?Less than three months ago, the Los Angeles Rams made the Super Bowl at the expense of the New Orleans Saints in the wake of an unthinkable non-call of an obvious pass-interference infraction late in that game.The NFL got pilloried for the call. Lawsuits were filed. The commissioner, Roger Goodell, got destroyed during his annual Super Bowl press conference for failing to promise immediate change.Only last week did the league's teams vote to make pass interference calls, and non-calls, reviewable ."But you do that, and you're potentially creating a whole host of other issues," Blandino said.Only time will tell what they are. Serena Williams in tennis. Dustin Johnson in golf. The 1972 U.S. Olympic basketball team . The "Hand of God " in soccer. Fifth down for Colorado in college football.Blown calls, controversial calls and calls that were "correct" according to the rulebook but questionable given the circumstances are nothing new to sports. Sometimes, the reaction of the wronged party can be as memorable as the call itself.After Saturday's whistle, Auburn coach Bruce Pearl, apoplectic at first, diffused the situation as best he could: "There are lots of calls during the game, and you're going to get some, and some you're not going to get," he said.That's boilerplate material for good sportsmanship and teaching your players, and fans, how to handle the toughest of situations.Similar emotions sometimes manifest themselves in other types of cruel or redeeming moments. On Sunday, Guy explained how his winning free throws followed a year rebuilding his confidence after Virginia's historic 16-over-1 loss last year. A few hours later, Notre Dame star Arike Ogunbowale lost a chance to repeat as hero in the women's NCAA final by missing a free throw she intended to make and then making a free throw she intended to miss.In general, O'Sullivan warns it's not good to use the examples set in elite sports as lessons for how to behave at the youth or recreational level."Those are two different things," he said. "One is sport for entertainment, the other is sport for development."Sometimes, especially in places where sports are so enmeshed with daily life, they seem hard to separate.But even at Toomer's Corner in Auburn, the sun came up the next morning. America started counting down to Monday night's big game, and fans on every side could agree on one thing: Hopefully an official's call won't decide it."Regardless of the circumstances, we're all human," said Craig Littlepage, the former athletic director at Virginia. "We all have to realize that it's sports. There are going to be mistakes made along the way."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersA day after ESPN aired an interview with former Green Bay Packers coach Mike McCarthy discussing how he was dismissed by the team last December, an explosive report looked at the complicated and disastrous relationship between McCarthy and quarterback Aaron Rodgers and how it impacted the team.Reporter Tyler Dunne dissected the situation in a lengthy story for Bleacher Report, published Thursday, and concluded that the coach-quarterback duo had a frosty relationship since the beginning of McCarthy's tenure in 2006. That was the year after McCarthy, who previously was the offensive coordinator for the San Francisco 49ers, favored Utah quarterback Alex Smith over Cal quarterback Rodgers.The 49ers took Smith with the No. 1 overall pick of the 2005 NFL Draft. After an agonizing wait of more than four hours, Rodgers heard his name called by the Packers with the No. 24 overall pick."Aaron's always had a chip on his shoulder with Mike," said Ryan Grant, a Packers running back from 2007-12. "The guy who ended up becoming your coach passed on you when he had a chance. Aaron was upset that Mike passed on him -- that Mike actually verbally said that Alex Smith was a better quarterback."Dunne interviewed dozens of players and coaches who gave insight into the complicated relationship and tried to help him place blame on why the Packers never turned into a New England Patriots-like dynasty. McCarthy and Rodgers won just one Super Bowl together -- Super Bowl XLV in 2011.According to Dunne: "One ex-Packers scout puts it on both. He describes Rodgers as an arrogant quarterback quick to blame everyone but himself -- one who's ‘not as smart as he thinks he is' --yet kindly points out that McCarthy basically quit on his team.Other points made in the lengthy article:--McCarthy missed team meetings to have massages in his office, sneaking the therapist up the back stairway as meetings took place in the building.--Former general manager Ted Thompson used to fall asleep in meetings.--Rodgers routinely would disagree with McCarthy's play calls and improvise his own plays. One source said Rodgers claimed McCarthy had "one of the lowest (football) IQs, if not the lowest IQ, of any coach he's ever had."--Assistant coach Alex Van Pelt, who had developed a good working relationship with Rodgers, wasn't brought back when his contract expired because McCarthy felt threatened by Van Pelt.--Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Ralph Lawler called his 3,229th and last regular season game for the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday night.They even obliged his trademark Lawler's Law, which states the first team to 100 points wins.Montrezl Harrell's dunk gave the Clippers that many points near the end of the third quarter and they went on to beat the Utah Jazz 143-137 in overtime.The eighth-seeded Clippers open the playoffs this weekend against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Lawler, who turns 81 on April 21, plans to end his 60-year broadcasting career whenever the Clippers are eliminated from the playoffs. He's handled their games for 40 years."I love you people," he told the crowd that gave him a standing ovation during a halftime ceremony.He noted many of them, including comedian Billy Crystal, have been coming since the Clippers played at the old Los Angeles Sports Arena in "the darkest days any franchise could have only imagined. God love you for still being here."The recently named Hall of Fame broadcaster was joined by friend and former on-air partner Bill Walton to call the game at Staples Center."It's been 20 years or so since we worked together. I got to say two or three words in the first half," Lawler told the crowd. "Reuniting with him has been a special night."Before the game, the team unveiled an on-court logo honoring Lawler, and the players wore special shooting shirts thanking him.Team owner Steve Ballmer donned the same black-and-white "Thank you Ralph!" T-shirt over a long-sleeved shirt.Fans signed an oversized card outside the arena and the first 10,000 received Lawler bobbleheads, which recite some of his signature phrases such as "Bingo!" and "Oh me, oh my!""This is a night the likes of which I could never have possibly imagined," he said.The Clippers made 12 3-pointers, with fans holding up placards reading "Bingo" and shouting it out on each one.The team estimated that Lawler has traveled 1.67 million miles, called games in 91 cities in six countries, talked over 500,000 minutes on the air, and had a career longer than eight NBA franchises.He's one of a few announcers who have called games in the four major U.S. pro leagues: the NFL's Chargers, MLB's Philadelphia Phillies, NHL's Philadelphia Flyers and NBA's Clippers and Philadelphia 76ers.He's received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and three Emmy Awards.Lawler met his wife, Jo, after leaving Philadelphia for San Diego to call Clippers' games and she was a season ticketholder.The team presented them with a trip to Australia and New Zealand.The Clippers announced the creation of a scholarship in Lawler's name at his alma mater, Bradley University in his hometown of Peoria, Illinois.___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Tottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino described the official opening of the club's new stadium as one of the most memorable days of his life on Wednesday before challenging himself and his team to be worthy of such a stage.The spectacular 62,062-seater arena, which looks like a spaceship landed in one of London's grittier neighbourhoods, cost around one billion pounds ($1.32 billion) and is expected to be the catalyst to take the club to the next level.Pochettino, who has earned plaudits for his sterling work at Tottenham during his five-year reign, knows the project on the pitch will be equally as challenging as the vast construction venture that delivered London's biggest club stadium.So far Tottenham, on a minimal transfer budget compared to the rest of the Premier League's top six, have kept on an upward trajectory, even if they have not won a trophy since 2008.Now the pressure will be on to deliver some silverware into the brand new trophy room."Now we are World Cup winners in terms of facilities. I think we have the best stadium in the world," the Argentine told reporters on an historic night for the club."The team play in the Champions League and now the stadium is here we need to be at the same level on the pitch."A 2-0 win over Crystal Palace to move back above Arsenal into third place was a solid, if unspectacular, start.With six games remaining, Tottenham are in a fight with their north London rivals, Chelsea and Manchester United to seal a place in the top four and in next season's Champions League."We have to start to think it's a new chapter and that Tottenham can be a real contender for big things," Pochettino told reporters in the plush auditorium."We have to start to behave like a big club. I think it's going to be a major project."While the challenge ahead is a daunting one, Pochettino, and the fans who flocked to the new stadium were happy to savour a memorable opening night against Palace in which goals by Son Heung-min and Christian Eriksen sealed the points."It was very emotional like the last game at (the old) White Hart Lane. A very special day," Pochettino said."This type of moment you are going to keep in your mind, your memories, your heart. It's one of the best moments of my life. We started to feel that it's home, that this is going to be such an important place for the future."Fans had arrived early to enjoy the incredible array of eating and drinking facilities in the stadium -- including the Goal Line Bar which at 65 metres is the longest bar in Europe, according to the club.Other state-of-the-art features include a retractable turf pitch which conceals a permanent artificial surface housed beneath which will be used to stage NFL games.There are many pointers to the past too, with one wall dedicated to Bill Nicholson, the last manager to lead Tottenham to the English league title in 1961.Pochettino's task now is to try to deliver new glory."Today we touched the glory. Now we need to touch the glory of lifting trophies," he said. "Now is the start of a chapter."($1 = 0.7592 pounds) (Reporting by Martyn Herman; Editing by Toby Davis)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Tottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino described the official opening of the club's new stadium as one of the most memorable days of his life on Wednesday before challenging himself and his team to be worthy of such a stage.The spectacular 62,062-seater arena, which looks like a spaceship landed in one of London's grittier neighbourhoods, cost around one billion pounds ($1.32 billion) and is expected to be the catalyst to take the club to the next level.Pochettino, who has earned plaudits for his sterling work at Tottenham during his five-year reign, knows the project on the pitch will be equally as challenging as the vast construction venture that delivered London's biggest club stadium.So far Tottenham, on a minimal transfer budget compared to the rest of the Premier League's top six, have kept on an upward trajectory, even if they have not won a trophy since 2008.Now the pressure will be on to deliver some silverware into the brand new trophy room."Now we are World Cup winners in terms of facilities. I think we have the best stadium in the world," the Argentine told reporters on an historic night for the club."The team play in the Champions League and now the stadium is here we need to be at the same level on the pitch."A 2-0 win over Crystal Palace to move back above Arsenal into third place was a solid, if unspectacular, start.With six games remaining, Tottenham are in a fight with their north London rivals, Chelsea and Manchester United to seal a place in the top four and in next season's Champions League."We have to start to think it's a new chapter and that Tottenham can be a real contender for big things," Pochettino told reporters in the plush auditorium."We have to start to behave like a big club. I think it's going to be a major project."While the challenge ahead is a daunting one, Pochettino, and the fans who flocked to the new stadium were happy to savour a memorable opening night against Palace in which goals by Son Heung-min and Christian Eriksen sealed the points."It was very emotional like the last game at (the old) White Hart Lane. A very special day," Pochettino said."This type of moment you are going to keep in your mind, your memories, your heart. It's one of the best moments of my life. We started to feel that it's home, that this is going to be such an important place for the future."Fans had arrived early to enjoy the incredible array of eating and drinking facilities in the stadium -- including the Goal Line Bar which at 65 metres is the longest bar in Europe, according to the club.Other state-of-the-art features include a retractable turf pitch which conceals a permanent artificial surface housed beneath which will be used to stage NFL games.There are many pointers to the past too, with one wall dedicated to Bill Nicholson, the last manager to lead Tottenham to the English league title in 1961.Pochettino's task now is to try to deliver new glory."Today we touched the glory. Now we need to touch the glory of lifting trophies," he said. "Now is the start of a chapter."($1 = 0.7592 pounds) (Reporting by Martyn Herman; Editing by Toby Davis)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue stories and visuals of the week. None of these is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out. Here are the real facts:__CLAIM: Rep. Ilhan Omar files $100 million lawsuit against Fox News host Jeanine Pirro.THE FACTS: Social media posts falsely assert that the Democratic congresswoman, a Muslim, is suing Pirro, who last month questioned on her show if Omar's wearing of a hijab is "antithetical to the U.S. Constitution." No such lawsuit has been filed in any federal court this year, according to public records. Additionally, no lawsuits listing Pirro as a defendant in New York, where Fox News is headquartered, or Omar's home state of Minnesota have been filed. "This is false," Jeremy Slevin, a spokesman for Omar, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press. Pirro's Saturday show "Justice with Judge Jeanine" was absent from Fox News programming for two weeks after her controversial comments about Omar's religious headwear. It has since returned.___CLAIM: Beto O'Rourke's biggest donor is liberal financier George Soros through the JStreetPAC.THE FACTS: Soros is not O'Rourke's largest donor, as suggested in Facebook posts that include photos of the men. Soros gave a maximum individual contribution of $2,700 to O'Rourke's U.S. Senate campaign in 2017, according to campaign finance records. The post wrongly suggests Soros donated $71,885 to the JStreetPAC, a political action committee that directed donors to O'Rourke's Senate campaign. The JStreet PAC, which supports a two-state solution in Israel, raised a combined $250,196 from individual donors for O'Rourke's Senate campaign. None of those donors was Soros. The PAC did not directly give any funds give to O'Rourke. Instead, JStreetPAC facilitated individual contributions to him by encouraging its followers to donate to the Democratic candidate on its website and at fundraisers. Soros donates to JStreet, a lobbying arm that is financially separate from JStreetPAC. Fundraising data for O'Rourke's presidential campaign will not be released until next week, but Soros has not donated to that campaign either through the JStreet PAC, said Ben Shnider, the vice president of political affairs strategy for JStreet.___CLAIM: Nike has just chosen to re-hire Michael Vick to represent their brand.THE FACTS: Nike has not re-signed Vick, a former pro-football star who pleaded guilty to dog fighting in 2007, despite reports circulating widely this week on social media. The claims relied on an article from 2011 when the sports shoe and apparel company re-signed Vick to an endorsement deal after he was released from prison. Josh Benedek, a Nike spokesman, told The Associated Press in an email that Nike does not have an existing contract with Vick. According to AP reports, Nike signed Vick in 2001 when he was a rookie in the NFL but ended his contract in 2007 after he was charged in relation to a dog-fighting ring. He served more than 18 months in prison and returned to football. In 2010, he was named AP Comeback Player of the Year after having the best all-around year of his career.___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online.___Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck___AdvertisementPaul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab Spring‘Can The President Be Impeached?’ We Answer Your QuestionsCalving SeasonAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelTwo days after signing with the New Orleans Saints, receiver Dez Bryant sustained a potentially season-ending foot injury on the final play of practice on Friday, according to multiple reports.Bryant had to be helped off the field, according to NFL Network, which also said that the Saints feared he had torn his Achilles’ tendon. He was scheduled to undergo magnetic resonance imaging, the network said, to determine the extent of the injury. A torn Achilles’ would sideline Bryant deep into next year.Things was just starting to heat up for me... I won’t question the man upstairs... this is the ultimate test.. thank you everyone for the prayersThe N.F.C. South-leading Saints added Bryant to their roster on Wednesday to bolster their receiving corps heading into the second half of the season. Their decision to sign Bryant, who spent his first eight seasons with the Dallas Cowboys before being released in April, seemed rooted more in improving their chances to advance far in the playoffs than in helping them get there.The Saints are averaging 34.9 points per game, best in the N.F.C., behind a diverse offense led by quarterback Drew Brees, running backs Alvin Kamara and Mark Ingram and receiver Michael Thomas.Unlike in Dallas, Bryant, 30, was not going to be the focal point of the passing game in New Orleans. It figured that he would need time to learn Coach Sean Payton’s intricate offense. Once he gained comfort, Bryant would have been able to slide into a complementary role, perhaps in the red zone as a taller target for Brees.Bryant, who practiced for the first time with New Orleans on Thursday, had been listed as questionable for the Saints’ game Sunday at Cincinnati. Now it appears he is unlikely to play at all for New Orleans, this season or next.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — A blizzard of bets from college basketball fans in March helped New Jersey to its second-highest monthly sports betting total, as March Madness translated into March Gladness for sports books.More than $372 million in sports bets were made in the state last month. That brings New Jersey's total since sports betting began last June to over $2.3 billion.After paying off winning bets and accounting for expenses, New Jersey's sports books have made over $63 million from sports betting and paid $7.7 million in state taxes in the first three months of this year. New Jersey and Delaware are the only states with newly legalized sports betting to meet their tax revenue projections from the betting.Several sports books said the number of bets on the college basketball tournament and their dollar amounts exceeded those from the NFL's Super Bowl."In this year's first ever March Madness with legalized betting available, U.S. bettors further proved to be fervent college basketball fans, and submitted more bets on DraftKings Sportsbook for the opening weekend of the NCAA Tournament alone than the Super Bowl," said Jamie Shea, the company's head of digital sportsbook operations. "While March had certainly been marked on our calendars before, this past tournament gave us a glimpse into the staggering business potential of college basketball in an expanded regulated betting market."FanDuel, whose sportsbook at the Meadowlands Racetrack in East Rutherford, near New York City, continues to lead the state in sports betting revenue at more than $32 million this year, said it had the best month any New Jersey operator has had since sports betting began in the state, earning $17.6 million. Monmouth Park Racetrack in Oceanport has made $5.4 million from sports bets so far this year.PlaySugarhouse saw its active users increase by 40% during the first week of the college basketball tournament compared to the week before, and its March revenue was up 23% compared to February.Of the nearly $1.1 billion in bets taken by New Jersey sportsbooks so far this year, more than $862,000 were made online. Several other states are struggling with whether to allow online sports betting as part of bills they are considering.Atlantic City's nine casinos and the two New Jersey racetracks that offer sports betting saw $294 million in casino gambling and sports betting revenue in March, up more than 34% from a year earlier. Only three casinos reported a revenue decline that month, with six showing an increase. Part of the increased total revenue is due to the fact that last March there were only seven casinos operating in Atlantic City, compared with nine now.The Borgata, as usual, led the pack with $65.7 million in March, up 1.3% from a year ago. The casino had its best March ever in terms of gross slot win ($41.7 million) and net slot win ($35 million), which excludes promotional credits given to gamblers.The Golden Nugget inched back into the No. 2 spot at $32 million, up 14% from a year ago. Tropicana was next at $31.3 million, down 4.2%, followed by Harrah's at $26.5 million, down 16.1%, and Caesars at $22.8 million, up 4.3%. Bally's took in $15.3 million, down 2.6%, and Resorts took in $15 million, up 1.2%.Among the two new casinos that opened last June, Hard Rock took in $26.3 million, and the Ocean Casino Resort took in $17.6 million.The casinos also were aided by more than $39 million in internet winnings, an increase of 53% compared to March 2018. Among internet-only entities, Resorts Digital more than tripled its revenue from a year ago to $15.7 million, and Caesars Interactive-NJ was up 16.4% to $5.1 million.______This story has been corrected to show that the $294 million in revenue was won by the nine casinos and the two horse tracks that offer sports betting, not just the casinos.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Kevin DraperATLANTA — The executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association, DeMaurice Smith, said Thursday that the union would push for more generous benefits for all retired players in the coming negotiations over the collective bargaining agreement, which expires after the 2020 season.The union has been criticized for not doing enough to improve the pensions and health insurance for older retired players. Eric Dickerson and a group of other former stars sent a letter to Smith, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell, and David Baker, the president of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, saying they would not attend the annual induction ceremony until all members of the Hall of Fame receive health insurance and a salary.In September, another group of prominent former players formed a nonprofit group called Fairness for Athletes in Retirement, or FAIR, that has a single goal: to gain pensions equivalent to those of players who retired after 1993. Before 1993, pension contributions were far less than for players who retired after that year.Smith said that helping retired players had always been a priority, noting that in 2011, the league and the union established the Legacy Fund, which provided $620 million to improve the pensions of players who retired before 1993.“We have always reached back and improved pensions,” he said. “I think it’s smart that former players understand that we can accomplish more in improving benefits. This is a union that is never going to select a certain group of players over another group of players.”Dewey McClain, a former player and an executive committee member at the Players Association, added, “There are roughly 25,000 former players, and we need to take care of all of them.”Improving retiree benefits will be one of many issues facing the union as it braces for negotiations to renew its labor deal. During the last negotiation, in 2011, the owners locked out the players, and the work stoppage lasted about four months.The union has been diverting royalties from its deal with Electronic Arts, the maker of the “Madden NFL” series of video games, into a fund to be used in case of another lockout. Smith declined to say whether the union would sue the league if it diverted money from its media contracts into its own fund, a step the union took in 2011. But he did say negotiations were not a pretty process.“It is one of the messiest, nastiest things you could ever do,” he said.The union wants to increase the share of players contracts that are guaranteed, but Smith said that was not necessarily something that could be achieved through the coming negotiations. Rather, it could be gained more quickly by players demanding it in contract negotiations.The union’s executive members were encouraged that Kirk Cousins, a quarterback on the Minnesota Vikings, was able to sign a fully guaranteed, three-year $84 million contract last off-season.“Would we love guaranteed contracts? Yes,” said Mark Herzlich, a member of the executive committee. “Is it something we will ask for? Yes. Is it the sole thing we will ask for? No.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe N.F.L.’s 32 teams are some of the most valuable assets in sports, and they rarely change hands.Yet just two days after the Carolina Panthers said they would investigate their owner, who was accused of what the team called “workplace misconduct,” an N.F.L. franchise — one of the most coveted businesses in the world — will be put on the open market by its longtime owner, Jerry Richardson. The only principal owner the team has ever had, Richardson has become the latest formidable figure to fall amid the rising sensitivity and anger around sexual harassment.In recent months, accusations of sexual harassment have taken down titans in Hollywood and the media world, politicians in Washington, as well as celebrity restaurateurs. The issue finally arrived at the N.F.L.’s doorstep last week when a former wardrobe stylist for NFL Network leveled accusations of sexual harassment and sexual assault, leading to the suspension of six current and former employees.Then on Friday, the Panthers said they had hired lawyers to look into accusations against Richardson, the team’s founding owner. On Sunday, the N.F.L. said it would take over the investigation. Hours later, Richardson announced he would sell the team in yet another scandal for the league amid an already tumultuous season that has included a nationwide debate over players protesting during the national anthem.In a statement, Richardson said the sales process would commence after the season. He will not entertain any inquiries before the last game has been played. Richardson made no reference to the allegations against him or the league’s investigation into those claims.“I believe that it is time to turn the franchise over to new ownership,” Richardson said.An N.F.L. spokesman, Joe Lockhart said the league had not decided whether it would drop its investigation.Still, Richardson’s decision represented a swift fall for a man who at times has been among the N.F.L.’s most powerful owners. At 81, he has controlled the team for nearly a quarter-century, having bought the franchise when it was created in 1993. For years, Richardson held sway over many important committees, and was an influential player in the league’s latest labor deal, which came after the owners locked out the players for several months in 2011. He was also the co-chair of the search committee for a new commissioner, which wound up being Roger Goodell. On Sunday, Richardson spoke with Goodell.Though he has stepped back from the league’s affairs in recent years, partly because of a series of health issues, Richardson continues to have many allies among his fellow owners, and he is the only current owner who also played in the N.F.L. He spent the 1959 and 1960 seasons with the Baltimore Colts.The allegations against Richardson came as the league, like so many other businesses, has faced accusations of sexual harassment in its midst. Five former N.F.L. players were among those named in the lawsuit against NFL Network.Richardson’s departure was startling because he is the face of the Panthers organization, and because N.F.L. teams are the ultimate buy-and-hold asset in sports. He had previously said that the team would be sold when he died. Now, he will oversee that sale once the season ends.“In some ways, it’s a passing of the torch,” said Marc Ganis, a sports consultant and a longtime adviser to Richardson. “There’s an inevitability to some of it. But this is not a happy way for it to happen.”Several of Richardson’s employees came to his defense on Sunday. The Panthers’ interim general manager, Marty Hurney, who returned to the team in July after a five-year absence, said he had never seen Richardson commit any sexual or racial misconduct in the office.“I came back because of the respect I have for him and for the organization he started and developed,” he told the Associated Press.Panthers quarterback Cam Newton said that Richardson had been a father figure to him during his years in Charlotte.“For me, I hope things don’t alter my thinking of Mr. Richardson,” Newton said after the Panthers beat the Green Bay Packers on Sunday. “But I do know that he has given me some things that I will forever be appreciative of.”Richardson’s decision is the latest shake-up to roil the organization this year. The team president, Danny Morrison, left the team in February. This summer, Richardson fired General Manager Dave Gettleman just before training camp and brought in Hurney.And in October, Newton drew criticism for saying it was “funny to hear a female talk about routes” after a female reporter asked him a question at a news conference. But despite the turnover and potential distractions, the Panthers are 10-4 and appear to be headed to the playoffs again.The sale of the Panthers will be the first of an N.F.L. team since 2014. The Buffalo Bills were the last team to be sold, after their founding owner, Ralph Wilson died. The team went for a $1.4 billion, a record at the time for an N.F.L. team.The Panthers are likely to sell for far more. The team owns its own stadium, has been more successful on the field, has a dynamic quarterback in his prime in Newton, and plays in a larger and faster-growing market. The league has also grown significantly since 2014. According to Forbes, the Panthers are worth $2.3 billion.By offering to sell the team, Richardson has saved the N.F.L. from a potential confrontation and an investigation that could have damaged the league’s image at a time of heightened anger over sexual harassment. Under the league’s constitution, owners can lose their clubs for acts “detrimental to the league.” Still, it’s somewhat surprising that the N.F.L. — known for its deliberate approach to any major change — and Richardson reacted so quickly and so dramatically to allegations of workplace misconduct.Just three years ago, the league strengthened its personal conduct policy to include not just players, but all league personnel. That decision was made after several star players were charged with domestic violence.Richardson’s impending sale brings to mind the furor over the Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, who was recorded on tape making racist remarks.In April 2014, N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver permanently barred Sterling, who reluctantly went along with the sale of the club for $2 billion to the Microsoft magnate Steve Ballmer.Other owners have given up their teams amid controversy. Nearly 20 years ago, the San Francisco 49ers owner Eddie DeBartolo pleaded guilty to felony charges stemming from a corruption case involving Edwin Edwards, the former Louisiana governor.The N.F.L. fined DeBartolo, who was also barred from actively controlling the 49ers for a year. Rather than return to the league, DeBartolo ceded control of the team to his sister, Denise York.DeBartolo was inducted in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2016.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the relationship between NFL Network and the six men who were suspended from their jobs after a former wardrobe stylist for the network leveled accusations of sexual harassment and sexual assault. Three were current employees of the network, not all six. (The other three were former employees of the network and were suspended by their current employers.)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Jemele Hill has moved on, but not from speaking her mind.The former ESPN host, best known to the non-sports world for tweets about President Donald Trump that provoked the White House to unsuccessfully seek her firing, launches a weekly podcast Monday on Spotify. On the show, "Jemele Hill is Unbothered," she'll conduct interviews and give commentary on sports, politics and culture.Coupled with a regular gig writing for The Atlantic magazine and her engagement in December to writer Ian Wallace, the 43-year-old Hill does seems unbothered. Happy, even.Some of her recent Atlantic pieces seem to give a road map for her podcast. She's written about how NFL players need to look out for their own interests because their teams probably won't, a "force field" erected by the black community that protected singer R. Kelly from consequences related to his behavior and how — after watching Barack and Michelle Obama interact with Trump at the funeral for former President George H.W. Bush — she wished they wouldn't always "go high."Her interests are no surprise to anyone who follows the social media feed of this former sportswriter who dreamed of one day writing for Sports Illustrated."The beauty of sports is that it always provided a platform to talk about all of these other things," she said. "We've always made the mistake of making it seem like the rest of the universe is happening in one place and sports is happening over here, when often sports, politics, social media and entertainment have been entwined. It's really not all that big of a leap."Hill became a newspaper sports columnist at 28 and when first hired at ESPN, it was as a writer, not a television host. Hill joined ESPN in 2006 from the Orlando Sentinel. She eventually moved in front of the cameras, although her highest-profile assignment, the 6 p.m. "SportsCenter" with Michael Smith, didn't quite click with viewers.Her Twitter battle with Trump unfolded in September 2017. She called him a white supremacist and "the most ignorant, offensive president of my lifetime."ESPN distanced itself from her comments and the controversy that ensued, but didn't discipline her. A month later, she was suspended for violating social media policy for tweeting that fans should effectively boycott the advertisers of the Dallas Cowboys after owner Jerry Jones said players who disrespected the American flag would not play on his team.Hill officially left ESPN in September 2018.A year and a half after the incident, Hill said she had no qualms over taking on the president."I didn't like the fact that it caused damage to people I care about and to relationships that I built, but in terms of what I said, I don't regret it," she said. "In my mind, I've only been proven right so it's hard for me to regret it knowing that I'm on the right side of history."Hill's eventual exit from ESPN was more amicable than these things normally are. She explored some of these feelings in an Atlantic column about reconnecting with John Skipper, the former ESPN boss who left his job because of substance abuse issues. "I left ESPN a better journalist than when I started there," Hill wrote. "I'm rooting for his success because he so heavily invested in mine."Her hiring at Spotify dovetails with that company's ambition to be the world's leading audio platform for both podcasts and music, said Courtney Holt, head of Spotify Studios. The science podcast Dope Labs and another by comic Amy Schumer are among the 20 original podcasts Spotify is making now or launching."I have always been a huge fan of Jemele," Holt said via email. "She is an important voice in sports, race, culture and politics, and their intersection in media."Two of Hill's first podcast interview subjects will be the radio personality known as Charlamagne tha God, host of "The Breakfast Club," and comedian and actor Tone Bell.One guest she wouldn't be interested in having on her podcast is Trump, not that it would be likely to happen anyway."He's had no desire to really move the conversation," she said. "There are people who you disagree with who you can have a good conversation with because both parties come into it wanting to be 10 percent closer. That's not the spirit of what he does, ever."AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy John BranchThe lawyer representing two former N.F.L. cheerleaders who recently filed discrimination claims against the league has made a settlement proposal: If her clients can have a four-hour, “good faith” meeting with Commissioner Roger Goodell and league lawyers, they will settle all claims for $1 each.The settlement proposal, sent to an N.F.L. attorney on Tuesday, asks that the league meet with at least four cheerleaders to “prepare a set of binding rules and regulations which apply to all N.F.L. teams.”Also, it would not allow teams that currently have cheerleading squads to disband them, as a way of retaliating against women who raised the workplace issues, for at least five years.The proposal was crafted and sent by Sara Blackwell, a Florida lawyer who represents the former Saints cheerleader Bailey Davis and the former Dolphins cheerleader Kristan Ware, both of whom recently filed complaints of gender discrimination.The letter is little more than one typed page, mostly asking for an audience with Mr. Goodell. But it could force the league into making the next move in what has become a sticky public-relations battle.Ms. Blackwell asked for a response from the N.F.L. by May 4.“We’re not asking them to admit fault, or to admit guilt, or even admit that there is anything wrong,” Ms. Blackwell said in a phone interview. “But if they do want and expect that cheerleaders should have a fair working environment, as they have stated, then it doesn’t make any common sense why the answer would be no.”The letter was sent to Steven Hurd, a New York lawyer at the firm Proskauer who often represents the N.F.L.The letter is the latest development to push the treatment of cheerleaders — and, by extension, the public’s perception of them — into the forefront.Dozens of current and former cheerleaders have stepped forward to discuss the indignities of what is often considered a glamorous job at the pinnacle of the dance profession. Some have detailed grievances that include pervasive and sometimes physical sexual harassment from fans that teams are aware of, extremely low pay and long hours, and strict rules covering everything from weight and appearance to social-media use that do not apply to players or other team representatives.The N.F.L. has responded with a written statement, filled more with a soothing tone than concrete ideas to fix any problems.“The NFL and all NFL member clubs support fair employment practices,” the league’s statement said. “Everyone who works in the NFL, including cheerleaders, has the right to work in a positive and respectful environment that is free from any and all forms of harassment and discrimination and fully complies with state and federal laws. Our office will work with our clubs in sharing best practices and employment-related processes that will support club cheerleading squads within an appropriate and supportive workplace.”Ms. Blackwell’s letter to the league cited that statement and said: “If the NFL is serious about this statement, then this should be an acceptable settlement demand. It is one that is virtually free for the NFL and for the NFL teams and it will ensure the positive and respectful environment the NFL states is the right of the NFL cheerleaders.”One of the cheerleaders present would be Ms. Davis, who was fired from the Saintsations, the cheerleading and dance squad of the New Orleans Saints, after posting a photograph of herself on Instagram. She filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, accusing the Saints of having different standards for women and men.Another cheerleader who would meet with the N.F.L. would be Ms. Ware, who worked three seasons with the Miami Dolphins. Earlier this month, she filed a complaint with the Florida Commission on Human Relations alleging that she was discriminated against because of her gender and religion.Ms. Blackwell said the other two cheerleaders who would attend the meeting have not been determined, but they would have no association with Ms. Blackwell and would come from other teams. The four cheerleaders would discuss both the “unlawful” and the “lawful, but egregious” employment practices pervasive in professional cheerleading, according to the letter.“We want change,” Ms. Blackwell said. “We want the opportunity for change.”If the N.F.L. rejects the proposal, the complaints made by Davis and Ware would continue through due process. If the N.F.L. accepts it, there is still no guarantee that the meeting would be fruitful, or that it would greatly improve conditions for cheerleaders.“I understand that they could meet with us, patronize us and do nothing in the end,” Ms. Blackwell said. “I understand that risk. But it’s a risk we’re willing to take to try to have real change.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.For tactical reasons, I’m not a big fan of kneeling during the national anthem as a form of protest. I worry that kneeling N.F.L. players distract from their important political message — calling out police violence against African-Americans — and needlessly alienate otherwise persuadable people. (I’ve made the full case here and here and discussed the players’ broader protest movement here.)But if kneeling is problematic because it seems unpatriotic, the N.F.L.’s response is outrageous because it actually is unpatriotic. By instituting a policy yesterday to punish players who exercise their right of free expression by kneeling, the league is rejecting a basic American value. Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, and the league’s owners are evidently so insecure about their own patriotism that they have felt the need to bully their employees into a ritual sign of respect.“I am a fan of free speech on college campuses,” E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post tweeted. “So I ask my conservative friends who talk about this issue so much if they will also stand up for protesting #NFL players. Or do they think owners can make stadiums conservative ‘safe spaces’ where even silent protest is banned?”The Daily Beast’s Jay Michaelson notes that the N.F.L. is for-profit entertainment that receives huge subsidies from American taxpayers. His piece is headlined, “The NFL Can Punish Kneeling Players Because It’s a Private Corporation. Let’s Start Taxing It Like One.”The lawyer Jill Filipovic wrote: “The NFL will fine you for kneeling, but draft you even if you’ve physically or sexually abused women.”“Standing for the National Anthem is meaningless if it’s mandated, and such a mandate undermines the essential liberty of free speech,” wrote the religion columnist Elizabeth Evans (while encouraging people to read David French’s piece in National Review).Others noted the political implications. “To be clear, the NFL is publicly siding with President Trump by requiring players to now stand during the national anthem and stop protesting police brutality,” PBS NewsHour’s Yamiche Alcindor noted. “The league capitulated to a president who relishes demonizing black athletes,” The Times’s editorial board wrote.It’s worth keeping in mind the ways that N.F.L. owners have already engaged in pettiness: by refusing to employ protest leaders. Colin Kaepernick, one of the original kneelers, is good enough to play in the N.F.L., as Kyle Wagner of FiveThirtyEight has explained. The fact that teams won’t sign him looks like a case of collusion.Eric Reid, another kneeler, is an even better football player than Kaepernick and is also unsigned. Danny Heifetz of The Ringer profiles Reid here, and Reid’s Times op-ed is here.College, not just for the affluent. Last week, I mentioned a new study that found a huge financial return on college degrees for poor students. The authors of that study, Tim Bartik and Brad Hershbein, now have a Times Op-Ed going into more detail on their findings.You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMINNEAPOLIS — Being great is a series of sacrifices. Or possibly a continuous case study in self-denial if the ultimate goal is to be a champion.That's the hook Texas Tech head coach Chris Beard set for his men's basketball team in the offseason. Just as Tom Brady can't recall the last time he had a slice of pizza, Beard wanted his players to understand that decision goes beyond counting calories. And he went big, relatively speaking, to show his players he meant business. He started by punting ... beer."It hasn't been easy," Beard said with a knowing, if sympathetic, nod from rows of media Friday in the bowels of U.S. Bank Stadium. "We make sacrifices every year. Team, players, before we start official practice, we pick this up. LeBron James eliminates social media in the playoffs. I want to say Tom Brady enjoys a beer from time to time, too. He gives it up in an NFL season. It's just the idea of elite people making sacrifices and having discipline."There's guys on our team that have given up Netflix after 9 p.m. There's guys on our team that have given up social media. There's guys that have given up fried food. You basically have to sacrifice something. In our culture, if you say you're going to do it, you'd better do it, or you're about to get roasted."So me this year, it's no beer, no desserts, no candy. I haven't had any ice cream, candy, cake, beer, since the first day of practice. A couple things, though. Did you know a Pop-Tart is not a dessert! It's a breakfast. I've eaten a lot of Pop-Tarts, man, since October."Beard knows a thing or two about sacrifice. He said there are "a lot of guys in this Final Four coaching that aren't getting paid." Beard said Friday it wasn't until his fourth job in college basketball that he earned a paycheck."You know, you scrap," he said. "We did private lessons on the side, rebound for guys, and used to cut cardboard boxes behind this grocery store, and then they'd pay -- because you could work at any time as long as the boxes were cut by the next morning, and just all sorts of stuff like that. I don't think coaching is any different, though. I've got friends in other professions. You sacrifice. When you find something you love, you sacrifice. None of us do this -- [Texas Tech guard] Jarrett Culver doesn't play -- he plays for the love of the game and not what the game does for him, and the same thing for Norense."Don't tell Kirby Hocutt, my AD, this, but I would do this job for free. Do I have y'all's word that you won't put that out there?"Beard won't be working for free again, but his example caught on at Tech.Beard, who coached under Bobby Knight at Texas Tech and later was on Pat Knight's staff, quickly noticed players were following suit.Odiase, a fifth-year senior, decided to enact blackout periods for cellphone use, especially on the road during the Big 12 season. It started with team bonding in mind but became a mandate with expanded restrictions."We played on the road at Oklahoma, and it was a good idea to stay focused, locked in, get some rest, and we went on a big winning streak," Odiase said. "So ever since then, coach, if we come to -- say we play on Saturday and we come on Wednesday, every night, no matter if it's before the game or not, we've been taking the phone up. It's helped us. Some of the young guys don't like it, but it's great to be disciplined and get rest."All-Big 12 wing Culver -- who smirked through a good-natured ribbing from Beard about perhaps talking to his roommate instead of clinging to his phone -- said there was little resistance to the idea of unplugging because the results were undeniable."I feel like it's good for us," Culver said. "I mean, you don't have nothing to do. You can't be on your phone. You're not on social media, you don't have your phone. Can't talk to nobody. So it kind of forces you to get rest and get the sleep you need. I feel like it helps us. Once we went on that run, we just kind of stuck with it as a tradition."--By Jeff Reynolds, Field Level MediaAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. It came after Boston had rallied from a 0-3 deficit to defeat the Yankees to claim the best of seven American League championship.-Sailing: 2013 Oracle Team USA. The defending champions retain the America's Cup by winning seven consecutive races against New Zealand in San Francisco Bay after trailing eight races to one and facing elimination with one more loss. -Cricket: 2001 India. India were down and out as they were asked to follow on by Australian captain Steve Waugh in the second test in Kolkata in 2001. With the tourists holding a 274-run lead and a 1-0 advantage in the series, Waugh's decision appeared to be vindicated when India slumped to 3-115 in their second innings.However, a remarkable 281 by VVS Laxman and 180 by Rahul Dravid steered India to an exhilerating 171-run victory.India went on to triumph 2-1 in the series.-Soccer: 2012 Manchester City: Manchester City appeared to be suffering a dramatic collapse when they trailed Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on the final day of the season. But two stoppage-time goals just before the final whistle completed a 3–2 win over QPR and secured City the English top-flight title for the first time in 44 years. It was the first time the Premier League title was decided on goal difference. City's game-winning goal against QPR came 15 seconds after their cross-town rivals Manchester United had thought, albeit very briefly, that they had won the league title after defeating Sunderland 1–0.-Basketball: 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers: LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers end 52 years of Cleveland sports agony when they defeat the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game Seven of the NBA Finals. Cleveland major sports teams had not won a championship since Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns to the National Football League title in 1964.-Soccer: 2005 Liverpool. Trailing by three goals at halftime against favourites AC Milan in the Champions League final, Liverpool scored three goals in a dramatic six-minute spell to draw level. They then went on to win their fifth European Cup by defeating the Italians 3-2 on penalties.-Cricket: 1981 England. England were 1-0 down in the Ashes series against Australia after two tests. With odds of 500-1 against England midway through their second innings at Headingley, Ian Botham struck 149 not out and Bob Willis took eight for 43 to pull off the unlikeliest of victories. England went on to win the series, dubbed Botham's Ashes, 3-1.-Soccer: 1968 Manchester United. A decade after Manchester United lost eight players in the 1958 Munich air disaster on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  (Compiled by Pritha Sarkar and Gene Cherry, editing by Pritha Sarkar)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. It came after Boston had rallied from a 0-3 deficit to defeat the Yankees to claim the best of seven American League championship.-Sailing: 2013 Oracle Team USA. The defending champions retain the America's Cup by winning seven consecutive races against New Zealand in San Francisco Bay after trailing eight races to one and facing elimination with one more loss. -Cricket: 2001 India. India were down and out as they were asked to follow on by Australian captain Steve Waugh in the second test in Kolkata in 2001. With the tourists holding a 274-run lead and a 1-0 advantage in the series, Waugh's decision appeared to be vindicated when India slumped to 3-115 in their second innings.However, a remarkable 281 by VVS Laxman and 180 by Rahul Dravid steered India to an exhilerating 171-run victory.India went on to triumph 2-1 in the series.-Soccer: 2012 Manchester City: Manchester City appeared to be suffering a dramatic collapse when they trailed Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on the final day of the season. But two stoppage-time goals just before the final whistle completed a 3–2 win over QPR and secured City the English top-flight title for the first time in 44 years. It was the first time the Premier League title was decided on goal difference. City's game-winning goal against QPR came 15 seconds after their cross-town rivals Manchester United had thought, albeit very briefly, that they had won the league title after defeating Sunderland 1–0.-Basketball: 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers: LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers end 52 years of Cleveland sports agony when they defeat the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game Seven of the NBA Finals. Cleveland major sports teams had not won a championship since Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns to the National Football League title in 1964.-Soccer: 2005 Liverpool. Trailing by three goals at halftime against favourites AC Milan in the Champions League final, Liverpool scored three goals in a dramatic six-minute spell to draw level. They then went on to win their fifth European Cup by defeating the Italians 3-2 on penalties.-Cricket: 1981 England. England were 1-0 down in the Ashes series against Australia after two tests. With odds of 500-1 against England midway through their second innings at Headingley, Ian Botham struck 149 not out and Bob Willis took eight for 43 to pull off the unlikeliest of victories. England went on to win the series, dubbed Botham's Ashes, 3-1.-Soccer: 1968 Manchester United. A decade after Manchester United lost eight players in the 1958 Munich air disaster on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  (Compiled by Pritha Sarkar and Gene Cherry, editing by Pritha Sarkar)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongAn air horn sounded, and the Jets jumped. Eleven offensive linemen hurried to the back right corner of the practice fields to join their coach, Rick Dennison. Practice started with a focus on pre-snap stillness.“Feet on the line!” Dennison said. Three linemen crouched into a set position to block. Dennison shouted, “Hut!” They took one step to begin a kick slide drill. He repeated his order, and they went back two steps.The line danced as one this day. Three days before, it was another story. Three of their flinches resulted in flags for false starts during a 34-20 loss to the Bears. The defeat meant the Jets were mired in another slow start: 3-5 for a third straight year.To correct the missteps ahead of Sunday’s A.F.C. East game against the Dolphins in Miami, Dennison demanded synchronicity and harped on the need for blockers to trust their muscle memory. He employed positive reinforcement.“That is so much better,” Dennison said.“Better, better, better,” David Diaz-Infante, the assistant line coach, said.It could hardly get worse. In all, referees whistled five Jets for five false starts in Chicago. Quarterback Sam Darnold deemed the mistakes “drive killers,” and head coach Todd Bowles called them “the most disheartening thing of the whole ballgame.”Even with Khalil Mack, the Bears’ most disruptive defender, sidelined with an ailing ankle, the Jets failed to find a balance between anticipatory and antsy motions.Bowles dismissed the idea of blaming cadence or center Jonotthan Harrison, who started in place of the injured Spencer Long. Three linemen — James Carpenter, Brandon Shell and Kelvin Beachum — and two tight ends — Chris Herndon and Neal Sterling — cost the team five yards apiece.“It’s individual each time,” Bowles said. “You can coach it all you want, but the player himself has to concentrate, and it was a different one each time.”There was no particular pattern to this most basic of penalties. The Jets committed the same infraction on the second play of the first drive, the first play of the second drive and the third play of the third drive. They were flagged for false starts less than a minute into the contest and with 18 seconds left in the game.It happened on the left side of the ball and the right, as well as in the middle of the line. Herndon, a rookie, actually moved twice on his miscue. The first shift went uncalled by the official despite Bears pass rusher Aaron Lynch pointing out Herndon’s move. The official blew the play dead when Herndon moved a second time. Herndon, who also scored a touchdown in the loss, accepted the blame, as did his compatriots.“It’s just, especially when you’re going snap after snap, it’s just timing up when that head bob goes,” Beachum said. “There’s a lot of anticipation that goes with it. Sometimes you get a little antsy and jump. No excuse. Something I can’t have.”Bowles oversaw a particularly anxious unit in 2015, his first season as head coach, when the Jets committed 1.44 false starts per game, the fourth most in the NFL. In 2016, they calmed and were tied for 20th in the league. Last season, they committed 14 false starts in 16 contests.The false start is not the team’s only problem. It is also not necessarily indicative of failure. The Chiefs, now 7-1, are tied with the Texans, who are 5-3, for most false starts this season. The Broncos, also 3-5, have committed two false starts — the fewest in the league — through eight weeks while the Jets have committed 12 and are ranked third worst in the NFL.Darnold allowed that he could “communicate a little better in the huddle” and insisted that the use of silent counts and various cadences was necessary to keep counterparts at bay.“You don’t want those guys teeing off or to get a running start,” he said.In Chicago, the Jets went with a silent count for a road game, though it was not particularly loud in Soldier Field. Darnold knew that timing was key because his linemen can get a little antsy looking out the corners of their eyes to see him raise his right leg or the center to snap the ball back to him.“We’ve just got to hold our water a little better,” Darnold said.Bowles knows that the road ahead will only get louder as the Jets fly to Miami to face a 4-4 Dolphins team in the first of three straight divisional games.“It’s an AFC blood bath game,” Bowles said.One of the few Jets to stand still this week was general manager Mike Maccagnan. After working the phones Tuesday, he did not make a move before the trade deadline. On Thursday, he sat in a conference room on the second floor of the team’s training facility and expressed frustration and disappointment at being 3-5 again. The Jets have not made the playoffs since 2011.With half of the schedule still to play, he acknowledged that having significant salary cap space will help him to be “very active” next off-season, whenever it comes, to improve the roster. Behind him, the current team walked through plays as he spoke about balancing his postseason aspirations with patience, a virtue that all in the organization — from offensive linemen to the general manager — must practice.“We want to get there as soon as we can get there,” he said. “Honestly, we want to get there this year.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Laura Vikmanis With Amy SohnMs. Vikmanis is a former cheerleader for the Cincinnati Bengals.DAYTON, Ohio — A few weeks ago, a former New Orleans Saints cheerleader, Bailey Davis, filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. She had been fired from the cheerleading team for posting a photo of herself in a one-piece outfit on Instagram and investigated for supposedly going to a party where players were in attendance. Her Saintsations cheerleader rule book, one of many among N.F.L. cheerleading teams, places strict limits on social media use and prohibits fraternization with players. (Ms. Davis says she was not at the party in question.) What’s interesting about her complaint is that she is arguing that the N.F.L. violated its own anti-discrimination policy in its treatment of her — by targeting her because she is a woman.I joined the Cincinnati Ben-Gals, the cheerleading team for the Cincinnati Bengals, when I was 40, making me the oldest cheerleader in the N.F.L. at the time, in 2009. Not once during my six seasons cheering did I feel discriminated against because of my age. But as a woman I became well acquainted with the kinds of gender-based discrimination Ms. Davis describes in her complaint: the strict rules, the demeaning and objectifying behavior from often inebriated fans and the extraordinarily low pay.The Ben-Gal rule book, when I joined, consisted of nine single-spaced pages. Rules covered missed practices, ideal weight, wardrobe and appearance. Even when the rules were reasonable, there was sexist thinking and language throughout. For example, the only time a cheerleader could miss practice with no penalty was for her wedding. As a divorced mother of two, I would have preferred an exception for emergency child care.Other rules dictated weight: Any cheerleader more than three pounds above her goal weight could not cheer the next game. (After a 2014 lawsuit, the Ben-Gals rule book was changed and there are no mandatory weigh-ins. Still, the director and coaches can decide, based on a cheerleader’s look, whether she is fit to cheer a given game.)Our wardrobe, even on our days off, was highly regulated — no T-shirts that showed belly, no belly button rings, no body piercings, no glitter. “Professional attire and glamour is expected at ALL TIMES,” the book stated, “and you may be sent home and/or benched before any game, practice, job, team function, charity event, etc. Well-groomed hair and makeup is expected at ALL TIMES!!” We lived in fear that a fellow Ben-Gal might see us buying groceries in terry sweats and report us to our director.For practices, we were required to wear sports bras and short shorts, with pantyhose underneath, and sneakers with socks. “No panties are to be worn under practice clothes or uniform, not even thong panties” was a rule that made some cheerleaders particularly uncomfortable.One of the strictest and longest-standing rules was no fraternization. Cheerleaders could not socialize with Bengals or Bengals personnel except at public events. Players, however, were not penalized for approaching us, in person or online. Ms. Davis’s E.E.O.C. complaint argues that the Saints’ anti-fraternization policy is unfair to women because it penalizes them for contact for which players are not penalized.The rules might not have felt so humiliating had we received fair pay for our work. The year I joined, we got $75 per game and nothing for practices — standard then for league cheerleading teams. This came to around $2.50 an hour.We did not even own our uniforms. Instead we paid a $100 rental fee, refundable only if the uniform was returned in good condition. If special outfits were required for private events, we had to buy them (and weren’t reimbursed). When I left after six years, I could not take my uniform with me because it was still in good condition; it was used for two more seasons by another Ben-Gal before I could purchase it.To supplement the low pay, I could bring in extra money by signing up for special events with fans, which came to several hundred dollars per season. But at these events, groping, sexist comments and ogling were par for the course (sometimes literally, since we often made appearances at golf courses). And while there was a security person provided for us at stadium events, at off-site events, which could draw hundreds of fans, we were on our own.At our orientation, our captain told us to expect harassment from fans. “When a fan gets too close or gropes you,” she said, “always smile. If a guy grabs you too tightly, take his hand off you and put your arm around him instead.” We were told to be polite and courteous, and to never get angry with fans, no matter what they did.Some male fans leered, stared at our breasts and tried to grab us when we posed for photos with them. Bar events were particularly unpleasant because the men were often inebriated. When I posed with them, they would try to do a “boob hug,” reaching their hands around, raising them slowly and trying to touch the side of my breast. I had to delicately (but never angrily) move the hand to my waist or arrange myself far enough away that they couldn’t touch me.Fan interactions could even be punishment for breaking the rules. On the Ben-Gals, once the cheerleaders were chosen for the four corners of the field, any women who did not “make corner” (often because of their weight) were not allowed on the field for the game. Instead, they had to go to the private suites to mingle with fans, who could be rude and ungracious. One of the reasons we all worked so hard to “make corner” was to avoid having to make a suite appearance.In the past, most cheerleaders put up with these brutal conditions, figuring that cheering was a temporary job and there was no point fighting to change it when it was meant to be a steppingstone. Those who did complain were often shunned or punished. The overriding message we received from our directors and captains was that complainers were replaceable. Some of the more vocal women would be disqualified (by the captains) from participating in paid events, as punishment for speaking out.Fortunately, cheerleader conditions are improving. The Seattle Seahawks were the first to offer minimum wage to their cheerleaders, in 1997. Cheerleaders for the Oakland Raiders and Tampa Bay Buccaneers now get minimum wage and overtime, as do the Ben-Gals, after lawsuits and settlements. After one of my fellow cheerleaders initiated a class-action suit against the Bengals for violation of federal employment laws, we received $255,000 in back pay. My own payout was $7,500 for three years of cheering. Today a minimum-wage cheerleader can make several thousand per year, which might cover a chunk of the cost of pantyhose, hair extensions, cosmetics and gasoline that they buy with their own money.Some football fans adore us and can’t envision the game without us. Others think we’re bad dancers and relics of a more sexist era. But one thing is indisputable: Cheerleaders bring in money. A 2003 Forbes magazine article estimated that N.F.L. teams with cheerleaders bring in $1 million in revenue per team in calendar sales, appearances, sponsorships and clothing lines. Cheerleaders also bring traffic to team websites with blogs, photos and contests. Public events and web traffic can lead to increased ticket sales for games and a higher profile for team sponsors.So we bring in seven figures and earn in the low fours. Football players, who are unionized, receive millions of dollars and are not subject to anywhere near the same level of scrutiny about their behavior and appearance on and off the field.I am hopeful that Ms. Davis’s case will lead to a change in the treatment of N.F.L. cheerleaders and a rethinking of the outdated rule books that dominate our cheering lives. Until then, cheerleaders, who must be at least 18 or 21 depending on the team, will continue to be underappreciated and infantilized.There was one page of the Ben-Gals rule book that I will never forget. It had bold capital letters that made me wonder what I had gotten myself into: “Authority — ABSOLUTELY NO ARGUING OR QUESTIONING THE PERSON IN AUTHORITY!!!”Laura Vikmanis, a former Cincinnati Ben-Gal, is a registered dietitian and the author, with Amy Sohn, of “It’s Not About the Pom-Poms: How a 40-Year-Old Mom Became the NFL’s Oldest Cheerleader — and Found Hope, Joy, and Inspiration Along the Way.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. For more coverage of women and gender issues, subscribe to Gender Letter, a new newsletter, or follow @nytgender on Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Danya IssawiThe search for love is back on in “The Bachelor,” and feel that high school nostalgia during “Friday Night Lights.”THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC. Colton Underwood, the former NFL football player and Season 14 “Bachelorette” contestant, returns to reality TV once more to try to find love. During the 23rd-season premiere of this show, which has captivated many and caused books to be written about its scope and power, Colton meets the 30 contenders after his heart. They include Miss Alabama 2018 and one contestant who brings, and momentarily leaves behind, her 10-year-old pet Pomeranian.COLLEGE FOOTBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 8 p.m. on ESPN.  Alabama, with a 14-0 record, takes on Clemson, also 14-0, for the national title. This is the fourth year these teams are meeting in the College Football Playoff, and the third time in those four years that the two go head-to-head for the championship.AMERICA’S GOT TALENT: THE CHAMPIONS 8 p.m. on NBC. The judges Simon Cowell, Mel B, Heidi Klum and Howie Mandel return, and the new host, Terry Crews, arrives, in this series premiere. The show features the most notable contestants and acts from past seasons and other iterations of “America’s Got Talent,” bringing them together to compete for the title of world champion. Fifty acts will return to the stage, including the 2009 runner-up Susan Boyle; the knife-throwing act Deadly Games, a 2016 semifinalist; and the ventriloquist Darci Lynne Farmer, the 2017 winner.LOVE ACTUALLY (2003) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Hulu and Vudu. Although Christmas is over, it’s hard to wean yourself from holiday movies. Now that Valentine’s Day is approaching, a Christmas-themed film about love might help you get ready for February’s celebration. With a star-studded cast — Liam Neeson, Alan Rickman, Colin Firth, Emma Thompson, Hugh Grant and Keira Knightley, among others — the film follows several intertwining love stories, including that of a prime minister who falls for a young staffer, and one about a marriage on the brink and plagued by infidelity. Despite a few questionable subplots involving a young woman and a much older man in a position of power, which prompted the critic A. O. Scott to label the movie’s portrayal of love “shallow and dishonest” in The New York Times, the feature remains a cult classic and even received an unorthodox 15-minute sequel nearly 15 years later.FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS (2004) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Hulu and Vudu. In this film, based on H. G. Bissinger’s 1990 nonfiction book, the director Peter Berg brings the small town of Odessa, Tex., where football reigns, to the screen. Here, the game takes precedence over everything, rivaling religion. Inspired by the Permian High Panthers’ 1988 season, the movie offers glimpses into the personal lives of the boys tasked with upholding their town’s honor, like the star quarterback, Mike Winchell (Lucas Black), and Don Billingsley (Garrett Hedlund), who is the victim of an abusive father (Tim McGraw). The players, as well as their coach (Billy Bob Thornton), must learn to navigate the pressures of being hometown heroes. Berg went on to create a television series of the same title, writing and directing its pilot episode.AdvertisementWe’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.AdvertisementSupported byBy Bill PenningtonIn a stunning, audacious move, the Giants on Tuesday traded wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., the team’s most popular and talented player, to the Cleveland Browns for safety Jabrill Peppers and the Browns’ first and third round choices in next month’s college draft.The deal, which cannot be completed until the new league year begins on Wednesday, was confirmed by persons with knowledge of the trade who were not authorized to discuss it.It will be one of the biggest trades in the 94-year history of the typically staid Giants franchise and may prove to be the most controversial. Beckham’s spectacular acrobatic catches, stirring touchdown runs and provocative end zone dances, made him a prominent and occasionally polarizing figure in New York and throughout the N.F.L.[Le’Veon Bell to Join Jets After Sitting Out Season]Nonetheless, since his rookie year in 2014, Beckham’s career, which has already included three Pro Bowl selections, was viewed as incandescent and the Giants seemed to recognize that potential by rewarding Beckham with a five-year, $90 million contract extension last year that made him the league’s highest paid wide receiver.But Beckham’s tenure with the Giants grew troubled soon after the contract was finalized, as he appeared to express displeasure with the spiraling, downward direction of the team in a television interview. Rumors began to circulate that the Giants, who have had only one winning season since 2012, were willing to listen to trade offers for Beckham.The Giants brain trust repeatedly denied Beckham was being shopped to other teams. Late last year and again in recent weeks, the Giants general manager Dave Gettleman insisted that the Giants “didn’t sign Odell to trade him.”Gettleman added: “That’s all I need to say about that.”But Tuesday night the trade with Cleveland was finalized. The Giants will get the 17th overall pick in the draft — they already own the No. 6 pick — along with a third-rounder (No. 95 overall). Peppers, a native of New Jersey and the Browns’ first round choice in 2017, has one interception in 29 games for Cleveland, with 96 solo tackles.The strongest part of Peppers’s skill set is tackling near the line of scrimmage, which makes him similar to Landon Collins, the safety the Giants allowed to enter free agency a few days ago. Collins, however, is a three-time Pro Bowler who agreed to a six-year contract worth $$84 million, $44.5 million of which is guaranteed, with the Washington Redskins.Beckham, 26, leaves the Giants with 390 receptions for 5,476 yards and 44 touchdowns in 59 games. He has averaged 14 yards per catch and ranks in the top five of several N.F.L. receiving categories when compared to his contemporaries in the last five seasons — and that’s after missing 16 games during two seasons because of a broken ankle and a serious hamstring strain.The trade of Beckham will put added scrutiny on the Giants decision-making in next month’s draft and during the free agency period. Beckham’s departure seems a strong indication that the team is girding for a period of rebuilding and will no longer be chasing a playoff berth in 2019, or perhaps even beyond next season. But the team’s continued support for 38-year-old quarterback Eli Manning runs counter to that thinking.The Giants face other challenges, too. Beckham will still count $16 million against the team’s salary cap next season and the roster lacks productive N.F.L. caliber players at multiple pivotal positions both on offense and defense.For the last several months, the Giants conceded they would listen to trade offers for Beckham but indicated it would take some combination of high draft picks and a top N.F.L. starter to lure Beckham away from the Giants.The Giants received neither in Tuesday’s trade.For the long-suffering Browns, the trade is a thunderbolt transaction that will galvanize the franchise, which has never won a Super Bowl. Cleveland not only becomes an overnight playoff candidate, it is a contender to win the rugged A.F.C. North division.Behind quarterback Baker Mayfield, the first overall pick of the 2018 college draft, the Browns were a startling 7-8-1 last season and benefited from a rejuvenated offense built around young stars. Coach Freddie Kitchens, whose background is as an offensive coach, will now have one of the top weapons in the N.F.L. to complement second-year running back Nick Chubb and veteran wide receiver Jarvis Landry, who is Beckham’s former college teammate at Louisiana State. Beckham and Landry are also good friends.As for the Giants, they have no wide receivers under contract beyond next season and that includes the new ace of the receiving corps, Sterling Shepard, a three-year veteran with 30 fewer touchdown receptions than Beckham.Late Tuesday night, Beckham seemed prepared to move on from the team that drafted him with the 12th pick five years ago. Speaking with the NFL Network after what he described as a brief conversation with Gettleman, Beckham said: “At this point I have no idea what to think. I’m trying to process it right now.” Beckham added that leaving the Giants was, “bittersweet, but it is what it is. It’s life.”An earlier version of this article misstated the terms of Landon Collins’s contract with the Washington Redskins. It is a six-year deal worth $84 million — not three years worth $45 million, which is the guaranteed portion of the contract.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byPor Marina FrancoHola, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• Un bloqueo a la ayuda humanitaria en Venezuela y discusiones para resolver la crisis. El gobierno de Nicolás Maduro fue acusado ayer de estar bloqueando los caminos desde Cúcuta, Colombia, para no permitir el paso de ayuda humanitaria —paquetes de alimentos, medicinas y bienes que escasean en el país— obtenida por la oposición con ayuda estadounidense. El líder opositor Juan Guaidó, quien se juramentó presidente encargado en enero después de acusar a Maduro de estar usurpando el puesto, dijo sobre los bloqueos: “Le pido al pueblo de Venezuela que vayamos a buscar esa ayuda humanitaria”, un aparente llamado a movilizarse por los puentes de cruce para recoger los productos.Guaidó ayer sumó el respaldo de más naciones; ahora la mayoría de la Unión Europea, así como Estados Unidos y casi todos los países latinoamericanos lo han reconocido como líder legítimo. México y Uruguay no han cambiado su posición y propusieron ayer, después de una reunión ministerial, el llamado Mecanismo de Montevideo para invitar a las partes venezolanas a dialogar.• Se acumulan las condenas contra Lula, quien ya está en prisión. El expresidente brasileño Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva fue sentenciado ayer a doce años y once meses de prisión en un tribunal regional de Paraná, acusado de corrupción y lavado de dinero pues habría recibido sobornos de la constructora OAS. Lula puede apelar esta condena, aunque deberá hacerlo desde la cárcel: desde abril de 2018 está en una celda en Curitiba, donde libra otra sentencia, también de doce años y también por un caso de lavado. Es un fuerte revés para el expresidente, que a finales del año pasado intentó regresar a la política al competir contra el ahora mandatario Jair Bolsonaro, antes de que su candidatura fuera inhabilitada.• ¿Qué está pasando en el juicio al Chapo? Cuando el jurado empezó a deliberar, el lunes, la procuraduría estadounidense lucía confiada después de presentar a más de cincuenta testigos y montañas de evidencia durante cuatro meses; en contraste, los abogados del Chapo dedicaron aproximadamente media hora a presentar su defensa. Sin embargo, el jurado ahora ha dejado ligeramente consternados a los fiscales y algo sonriente a Guzmán Loera: hoy empieza el cuarto día de deliberaciones y ya pidieron revisar de nuevo parte de la evidencia. Te explicamos por qué el camino a un veredicto está tardando más de lo previsto.“El problema suele aparecer cuando alguien cree que llamar a las cosas por alguno de sus nombres es peligroso, y se embarca en las peores perífrasis para no correr el riesgo. Lo hace, en general, porque cree que ser eso que no nombra es malo en sí, y entonces no se puede decir tan claramente”.El autor argentino Martín Caparrós presenta su defensa de la palabra “sudaca”: dice que hay que “usarla, apropiarla, mimarla, proclamarla” para que haya una resemantización del término que alguna vez fue usado como insulto a las personas latinoamericanas en España, donde él ahora vive.Cada año en Denver se reúnen niños vestidos como vaqueros, charros de varias edades, ganaderos y miles de personas del lado mexicano y del estadounidense de la frontera para celebrar un patrimonio cultural compartido. Hay espectáculos ecuestres, exposiciones de ganado y competencias de lazo con vestimentas muy vistosas [en inglés] que ayudan a fomentar el intercambio de tradiciones.• Escándalos que ensombrecen el gobierno de Virginia, en Estados Unidos. Primero fue exhibido el gobernador Ralph Northam, captado en fotografías con la cara pintada de negro al lado de alguien disfrazado de integrante del Ku Klux Klan (el blackface es una práctica racista con la que personas blancas se pintaban para burlarse de los estadounidenses negros). Después el vicegobernador Justin Fairfax fue denunciado por abuso sexual y, ayer, el fiscal general del estado, Mark Herring, admitió que en su juventud él también fue fotografiado con la cara pintada de negro. A Northam le han exigido renunciar. Si lo hiciera, la línea de sucesión pasa por Fairfax y después por Herring.• La gran huida del último bastión del Estado Islámico. En las últimas dos semanas miles de personas han huido del poblado sirio de Baghuz, el último sitio que controla el Estado Islámico, grupo extremista que alguna vez rigió un territorio en Irak y Siria de la misma extensión que Gran Bretaña. La reportera Rukmini Callimachi y el fotoperiodista Ivor Prickett estuvieron en la zona donde quienes huyen son separados entre civiles y combatientes del grupo o familiares de los milicianos [en inglés].• Estrellas que se apagan por las costas del Pacífico. Las costas desde México hasta Alaska se han vuelto cada vez más calurosas en los últimos cinco años y, de manera paralela, han muerto millones de ejemplares de distintas especies de estrellas de mar. Preocupados, unos niños recaudaron fondos y le enviaron un cheque por 400 dólares a la investigadora Drew Harvell, quien usó el dinero para determinar que las estrellas girasol están desapareciendo en parte debido a las temperaturas más altas de los mares. Harvell tiene consejos para cuidar a las estrellas de mar.• Un récord comprueba que el cambio climático ya está aquí. No es una posibilidad a futuro, sino una realidad actual concreta, advierte un científico de la NASA, con datos que confirman que el 2018 ya ocupa la cuarta posición entre los años con temperaturas promedio más altas desde que hay registro [en inglés]. “Los cinco años más calurosos han sido, de hecho, los últimos cinco años”, indicó Gavin A. Schmidt, director del instituto que realizó el estudio climatológico.• Tramas mundialistas y campañas de desprestigio: ¿habrá Copa de Catar 2022? El primer Mundial de Futbol que será disputado en el mundo árabe se ha visto afectado por reportes de retrasos, rumores sobre cómo ese país ganó la postulación y una estrategia que parece haber sido coordinada por los países vecinos del golfo Pérsico debido a disputas políticas. Documentos privados filtrados a The New York Times dan cuenta de una campaña aparentemente dirigida desde los Emiratos Árabes Unidos que busca socavar la copa o forzar a Catar a compartir la sede.• La liga de futbol americano que quiere desplazar a la NFL. Si te quedaste decepcionado con la falta de anotaciones en el Supertazón LIII, un partido de este sábado quizá te deje mejor sabor de boca: ese día se estrena la Alliance of American Football, una nueva organización que quiere competir con la NFL y que propone reglas como deshacerse de las patadas de despeje y que las primeras jugadas empiecen en la yarda 25 [en inglés].Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas nuestras recomendaciones para el fin de semana y una selección de artículos sobre salud e historias de amor.También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperThe Alliance of American Football is planning to suspend operations and will not play games this weekend, according to three people familiar with the decision who were not authorized to speak publicly.The league isn’t officially folding, the people said Tuesday, at least not yet. An official announcement about its status was expected soon. In a statement, Bill Polian, one of the league’s founders, confirmed the decision and expressed disappointment.The Alliance is the latest in a long line of upstart professional football leagues that tried and failed to capitalize on the seemingly insatiable appetite for the sport in America. Because the N.F.L. draws an average of about 15 million viewers for each game over its five-month season, the start-up owners tend to assume that a new league with just a fraction of that audience will succeed.It hasn’t turned out that way.Since the American Football League merged with the N.F.L. in 1970, there has been the World Football League, the United States Football League, the once and future XFL, the United Football League and others. While they have had varying business models, franchise locations and opinions on the best calendar for football, none of the leagues has yet found the right formula for sustained success.Now it seems the Alliance for American Football will soon follow them to the grave.The league’s chief executive and co-founder, Charlie Ebersol, probably should have known better. He the son of Dick Ebersol, the longtime NBC Sports chairman who started the first iteration of the XFL nearly 20 years ago, alongside the professional wrestling impresario Vince McMahon. That league folded after a single season.With the help of Polian, the former general manager of the Indianapolis Colts, Ebersol secured distribution deals for some of the league’s games on CBS, TNT and the NFL Network, a strong sign for a new league. The deals included little cash, however, according to two of the people.“I think there is a blind spot for most people that want to start professional sports leagues,” said Michael Huyghue, who was the commissioner of the United Football League. “The biggest issue is: What is the revenue stream? What is the revenue model?” The U.F.L. began play in 2009 and ceased operations in 2012.Most leagues require substantial television rights payments to survive, as well as a critical mass of ticket sales. Both are difficult to obtain for an unproven league. Knowing how substantial the start-up costs would be, the Alliance tried to justify its operations by comparing itself to a Silicon Valley tech company that expects to lose money for years while creating value. Ebersol believed the league’s technology and readiness for legalized gambling would make it a success.From the beginning, Ebersol had modest expectations for Year One.“There are going to be empty seats for quite some time, but we are committed to long-term investment around the idea,” he said in an interview in February, shortly before the season began.He estimated the Alliance would require $500 million to $750 million during the first five years.“You have to justify that expense, because either you are an eccentric billionaire creating a football league or raising really smart money that is patient,” Ebersol said.The Alliance’s eight teams, clustered in the Southeast and Southwest, began play after the Super Bowl. They have each played eight regular season games, with the championship game scheduled for April 27 in Frisco, Tex.But almost from the beginning, there were signs that things weren’t going well, including reports that the league had almost missed payroll.Last week the league’s controlling owner, Tom Dundon, told USA Today that the league was in danger of folding because it hadn’t secured an agreement with the N.F.L. and the N.F.L. Players Association to allow young players from N.F.L. rosters to work in the Alliance.“If the players union is not going to give us young players, we can’t be a development league,” said Dundon, who is also the owner of the N.H.L.’s Carolina Hurricanes. Just two weeks into the Alliance’s game schedule, he committed up to $250 million and became the controlling owner.But to Huyghue, whose United Football League lasted almost four seasons, that was the wrong focus.“Everyone keeps thinking players, players, players,” he said. “That doesn’t solve your revenue problem.”Polian’s statement blamed Dundon for the decision to suspend the league. “When Mr. Dundon took over, it was the belief of my co-founder, Charlie Ebersol, and myself that we would finish the season, pay our creditors, and make the necessary adjustments to move forward in a manner that made economic sense for all,” Polian said.Dundon could not be reached for comment.Despite the poor track record, the Alliance surely won’t be the last attempt to start a new professional football league. McMahon is reviving the XFL, which is to begin play next year, and last week he sold almost $272 million in World Wrestling Entertainment stock to support the venture, according to a company filing. The Pacific Pro League, founded by Don Yee, Tom Brady’s agent, is also set to start playing next year.The A.A.F.’s decision to shut down has immediate repercussions for at least one of the Alliance’s partners. Saturday afternoon’s game between Memphis and San Antonio was scheduled to be shown on CBS, serving as the lead-in to the two men’s Final Four college basketball games.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe Patriots’ dominant tight end, known for his combination of size and speed, announced his retirement on Instagram.By Benjamin Hoffman and Ken BelsonRob Gronkowski, the dominant tight end who helped lead the New England Patriots to three Super Bowl titles in nine seasons while cultivating a goofy, frat boy persona off the field, announced his retirement from the N.F.L. on Sunday.In an Instagram post, Gronkowski, 29, widely considered one of the most talented tight ends to ever play, thanked the team and its fans for drafting his “silliness” back in 2010 and acknowledged the uncertainty of what will come next for him.“Thank you for everyone accepting who I am and the dedication I have put into my work to be the best player I could be,” he said. “But now its time to move forward and move forward with a big smile knowing that the New England Patriots Organization, Pats Nation, and all my fans will be truly a big part of my heart for rest of my life.”Gronkowski did not say why he was retiring, or what he planned to do next. But according to a report on NFL Network, Gronkowski agreed to a deal with a film or television company before the Super Bowl.Becoming a television or movie personality is not a complete surprise; he seemed to enjoy performing on camera, dancing and hamming it up on things like a Gronk Party Ship in 2016 filled with fans and entertainers on a cruise ship from Miami to the Bahamas. He danced shirtless and appeared to egg on patrons to have sex.There also were a series of injuries that put in question how much longer he could play. He had hinted the past two seasons that he was considering leaving the N.F.L. because of the wear and tear on his body, which led to missed games because of an ankle sprain, a broken forearm, an infection, a herniated disk in his back, a torn A.C.L., a sprained knee, an injured hamstring and a pulmonary contusion, among other injuries.Gronkowski — should this truly be the end — will finish his career with 521 catches, 7,861 yards and a Patriots-record 79 receiving touchdowns. He was named to the Pro Bowl five times and was first-team All-Pro four times, taking full advantage of his size and speed to find mismatches on any given play. His team made the Super Bowl in five of his nine seasons, winning three times, but he was not on the field for the Patriots’ dramatic comeback win over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI because he was recovering for back surgery.When he was on the field, though, he was nearly always the go-to receiver for Tom Brady, with the two combining for thrilling plays in the closing minutes of countless games.“What an honor and privilege to play with you these past nine years @gronk!,’’ Brady wrote on Instagram. “You accomplished so much and our team was almost unbeatable when you were on the field!”Last season, Gronkowski earned nearly $9 million in salary and bonuses. He was able to finish his career on a high note, helping the Patriots — the only team he has played for — beat the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII. Drafted in the second round (42nd over all) of the 2010 draft, Gronkowski used his hulking 6-foot-6 frame to excel as a receiver and a blocker. He also used his size to run over defenders and, at times, confront them. He was fined four times, including once for taunting a player, once for unnecessary roughness and once for his role in a brawl at the end of Super Bowl XLIX.Because of his age and his injury history, much of the talk coming into this year’s Super Bowl was about whether Gronkowski had fallen off as a player. That idea was brushed aside by Aqib Talib, a cornerback for the Rams and a former teammate of Gronkowski’s.“You all haven’t put on shoulder pads and helmets and lined up against Gronk in your life. I do,” Talib said. “So believe me when I tell you, any day he can explode and go crazy.”Just as Talib predicted, Gronkowski played a huge role in the Patriots’ win, with six catches for 87 yards. Two of his catches, which went for a combined 47 yards, set up Sony Michel’s 2-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter, all but deciding the game.As dominant as he was on the field, Gronkowski was equally larger than life off it, frequently standing out among the businesslike Patriots, led by Coach Bill Belichick, with his love of partying and his frequent sophomoric humor, delivered with an exaggerated wink.Gronkowski’s fun-loving personality was candy to his fans. But it came as the N.F.L. was battling the perception — in the wake of several high-profile players being suspended for domestic violence and sexual abuse — that it cared little for how women were treated.Given his size and sense of humor, it was perhaps appropriate that Gronkowski is also a professional wrestling fan and friends with performers including Mojo Rawley. Gronkowski helped him “win” a Battle Royal in 2017. From time to time, speculation has surfaced that WWE was interested in offering Gronkowski a contract.His wrestling cameos might have been a prelude to a new career on screen. Already, he has appeared in the television series “Entourage,” “Family Guy” and “MVP.” He has also appeared in movies, including “The Lit Party,” “You Can’t Have It” and “American Violence.”Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor Mather and Benjamin HoffmanThe draft is over, and free agents have been signed. Training camps are springing to life around the country. It’s the peak moment for a feeling often in short supply among N.F.L. fans: optimism. There’s no reason all 32 teams can’t overachieve this year, right?Here’s a look at the league through the rose-colored glasses of late July by Victor Mather, and a somewhat more jaundiced view from Benjamin Hoffman:Denver Broncos The Broncos are on top of the pile as Super Bowl champions, and Von Miller’s contract is locked up. The retirement of Peyton Manning should not be too big a blow, as his numbers were anemic most of last season.Considering how limited Manning was in the Super Bowl, the Broncos essentially won a championship without a quarterback. If you liked that trick, you are going to love the team’s following it up by losing some significant players to free agency and replacing Manning with Mark Sanchez.• • •Kansas City Chiefs The Chiefs looked as good as anyone, ripping off 10 straight wins to conclude last season. Running back Jamaal Charles is set to return from injury to make the team even better.The N.F.L. has never been sentimental, but the Chiefs have become the anti-Hallmark card after Eric Berry fought his way all the way back from Hodgkin’s lymphoma to establish himself as one of the best defensive backs in the league and the team rewarded him with a protracted salary dispute that ended with his being franchise-tagged for the season.• • •Oakland Raiders They went out and signed guard Kelechi Osemele plus a strong defensive crew. Sean Smith, Reggie Nelson and the rookie Karl Joseph could take the secondary from good to excellent.With marked improvement last season, and several emerging stars, the Raiders appear to be on their way to legitimacy. Luckily, Mark Davis is providing plenty of distractions with talk of relocating the franchise, making things as difficult as possible for his players.• • •San Diego Chargers The Chargers grabbed receiver Travis Benjamin from the Browns to catch passes from the ageless Philip Rivers, who led the league in completions and attempts for the first time in his career.When the first thing mentioned by most people in relation to your team’s chances at improvement is the relative weakness of the other teams in your division, you know you are just a shade better than irrelevant.New England Patriots The nightmare of Deflategate is finally over for the Patriots, and Tom Brady is good to go for the final 12 games and the playoffs. His four-game suspension will help the team determine whether Jimmy Garoppolo is a long-term prospect to replace him.Brady knows all about handsome unknown backups thriving when given an opportunity, but any struggle by Garoppolo to adapt to a starting role could dig the team a rather deep hole.• • •New York Jets The Jets solved their chief off-season quandary by re-signing Ryan Fitzpatrick. They are well positioned for an injury setback at quarterback with Geno Smith and the rookie Christian Hackenberg. All three will have the pleasure of throwing to Brandon Marshall.Fitzpatrick played pretty well but failed to make the playoffs. It was a familiar feeling, as he has never appeared in the postseason and spent the past off-season being told by his own team that he is not nearly as good as he thinks he is.• • •Buffalo Bills The sky’s the limit for quarterback Tyrod Taylor of the Bills after his breakthrough performance in his first year as a starter, passing well and scaring defenses with his running ability. The running game looks strong again with LeSean McCoy returning.Rob Ryan was at the helm of terrible defenses in New Orleans and Dallas, so clearly he is the person bestsuited to right the ship in Buffalo alongside his brother, Rex, who despite his many successes has always been known more for his off-field drama than anything else.• • •Miami Dolphins The young coach Adam Gase is poised to turn the Dolphins around: He worked wonders with Jay Cutler in Chicago and can do the same with Ryan Tannehill. Miami straight-up stole offensive lineman Laremy Tunsil with the 13th pick of the draft after other teams were scared off by a silly video of college high jinks.Olivier Vernon is gone, Cameron Wake is working his way back from a devastating injury, and Ndamukong Suh’s production last season was nearly as bad as his attitude. The Dolphins are paid like a veteran-laden playoff team, but they rarely look like one.Cincinnati Bengals Andy Dalton was outstanding again for the Bengals, who are finally bound to win in the playoffs after five straight years of wild-card losses.Dalton lost two receivers and his offensive coordinator, and no one knows when Tyler Eifert, perhaps his favorite target, will be at 100 percent following ankle surgery.• • •Pittsburgh Steelers Behind Ben Roethlisberger and Antonio Brown, the Steelers had the second-best offense in the conference, trailing only New England. The team might well have gone all the way had Brown not been hurt and missed the playoff game against Denver.Not content with last season’s two-game suspension for violations of the league’s substance-abuse policy, Le’Veon Bell may be in line for a four-game ban to start this season after missing drug tests. That is nothing compared to Martavis Bryant, who will miss the entire year.• • •Baltimore Ravens The ace safety Eric Weddle arrives from San Diego, and the Ravens’ defense appears to be getting back to the glory days. The team should also return to consistency with Joe Flacco after starting four quarterbacks last season.Some people may love the movie “Wild Hogs,” but fielding a team with bunch of famous old players who are well past their prime and just seeing how things work out is not generally an effective strategy in the N.F.L.• • •Clevelend Browns Johnny Manziel and his soap opera are gone from the Browns. In his place is the exciting Robert Griffin III.The Redskins did not consider Griffin to be good enough to even have him suit up as a backup quarterback. The Browns have people believing he is a franchise savior. It is good for Cleveland that the Cavaliers and the Indians have done so well recently.Houston Texans A starter of seven games for last year’s Super Bowl winners, quarterback Brock Osweiler chose to join the Texans. The team also signed running back Lamar Miller from the Dolphins. And J. J. Watt returns to terrify opposing offenses.The Broncos thought so much of Osweiler that they preferred to put a severely limited version of Peyton Manning into their starting lineup to hand off the ball and hope for the best.• • •Indianapolis Colts After a disappointing season that was plagued by injury, quarterback Andrew Luck should return to the 40-touchdown numbers of 2014.Before Luck lacerated a kidney and missed a large chunk of last season, he was playing poorly and insisting he was not injured. The faith the team showed in giving Luck a gigantic new contract while declaring last season to be a fluke was commendable, as long as it actually was a fluke.• • •Jacksonville Jaguars They picked up the Super Bowl champion defensive tackle Malik Jackson and had a well-reviewed draft. Blake Bortles had the season’s longest completion, at 90 yards, and could be ready for a breakthrough in his third year as starter.There is optimism around the league for the Jaguars, but it is not hard to seem vastly improved when your team’s big off-season acquisitions in recent years were a video-game tent for bored fans and a very large scoreboard.• • •Tennessee Titans DeMarco Murray did not fit in Philly, but he could return to his huge Dallas numbers this year with the Titans. His running should open up the pass for the second-year quarterback Marcus Mariota.After signing a huge deal with Philadelphia last year, Murray did far more complaining than running. Apparently even he did not know that his previous success had largely been a result of the superb Dallas offensive line.Washington Redskins After two horrific years, the Redskins broke through with a division title last season. And now they have added the superstar cornerback Josh Norman from the Panthers.But there is a reason few quarterbacks have ever played with the franchise tag. Any player so tagged is theoretically too valuable not to lock up with a long-term deal. Enter Kirk Cousins, who has essentially been given a year to prove last season was not a fluke.• • •Philadelphia Eagles The Eagles have accomplished addition by subtraction, shedding Coach Chip Kelly, who was better suited to the college game, and the poor signing of DeMarco Murray. The first-rounder Carson Wentz is ready to deputize for, and eventually replace, the competent Sam Bradford at quarterback.For now, the best case is that the team remains competitive enough for Wentz not to get bored and tune out.• • •New York Giants The Giants signed their way to an elite defense, adding defensive tackle Damon Harrison from the Jets, cornerback Janoris Jenkins from the Rams and defensive end Olivier Vernon from the Dolphins. New Coach Ben McAdoo will keep the offense up to snuff, and Eli Manning is sure to have one more golden year in him.A good sign that your major off-season free-agent splash might have been too big a risk is when The New York Post runs a story with the headline “Olivier Vernon: Why I Won’t Be $85M Giants Bust.”• • •Dallas Cowboys After playing just four games last season for the Cowboys because of an injury, Tony Romo is ready to return to his customary health and excellence. Receiver Dez Bryant is also back after missing significant time last year. The No. 4 overall selection Ezekial Elliott of Ohio State could be a once-in-a-generation running-back talent.Hoping that Romo can stay on the field enough to make up for the team’s depleted defense is seemingly not the best strategy, given that he broke his clavicle twice last season and has not played 16 games in a season since 2012.Minnesota Vikings Last year’s Vikings shocked everyone by going 11-5. Their offensive line is often called the best in the game. Teddy Bridgewater is still only 23 and figures to keep improving. The defense is also first-rate, having given up the second-fewest points in the conference.But as good as Adrian Peterson looked last season, when he happened to be coming off an involuntary yearlong vacation, the fact remains that he is 31 and plays a position where 29 is old.• • •Green Bay Packers The nonpareil Aaron Rodgers of the Packers will have more to work with this year: Receiver Jordy Nelson is back after missing all of last season, and running back Eddie Lacy looks trim after being faulted for carrying too much weight last year. The team also has the easiest schedule in the league.That Lacy has spent the last several months insisting that he now cares about his conditioning and that he will take his weight seriously this season is plenty of cause for skepticism that it can be so easily fixed.• • •Detroit Lions After a 1-7 first half, the Lions made an assistant-coach shuffle and roared back to finish the season 6-2. They can carry that form into 2016. Marvin Jones is a solid signing at receiver.Jones has the small task of replacing Calvin Johnson, the man they nicknamed Megatron, who played only nine seasons but was so great that he may be a Hall of Famer anyway.• • •Chicago Bears The linebacker signings of Danny Trevathan from the Broncos and Jerrell Freeman from the Colts could revitalize the Bears defense.Things might not be so happy on offense, where the team’s best skill player is unquestionably Alshon Jeffery. He may also be the most discontented, as the team failed to sign him to a long-term deal, forcing him to play this season under the franchise tag.Carolina Panthers The Panthers had one of the best regular seasons in league history, with Cam Newton winning the Most Valuable Player Award. And that was without the injured Kelvin Benjamin, who will be back to catch those Newton passes after missing a year with a torn anterior cruciate ligament. 15-1? How about 16-0?One of the Panthers’ biggest weaknesses last season was depth at cornerback, where they were desperate enough to bring Cortland Finnegan out of retirement in hope of plugging the holes. Their big move of the off-season was releasing Josh Norman, a first-team All-Pro cornerback.• • •Atlanta Falcons The Falcons have added some useful pieces, like center Alex Mack from the Browns and receiver Mohamed Sanu from the Bengals. The amazing Julio Jones led the league in receptions and yards and probably will again.Matt Ryan, meanwhile, used to confuse pundits by being nearly unbeatable at home and simply O.K. on the road. Over the last three seasons, he has put those criticisms to rest by becoming rather mediocre no matter where he plays.• • •New Orleans Saints The Saints’ Drew Brees led the league in passing yards last year and will now have a new weapon: tight end Coby Fleener from the Colts. On defense, the Rob Ryan era is over, and former Raiders Coach Dennis Allen should improve the lackluster unit.The team appears on the upswing defensively just in time for Brees to be 37 and dealing with major shoulder problems and a depth chart that has rookie Michael Thomas as his No. 2 wide receiver.• • •Tampa Bay Buccaneers Last season for the Buccaneers was not as bad as their record indicated: They were 6-6 before a late-season swoon. Jameis Winston should improve in his sophomore season after a promising start, and the offensive-minded Dirk Koetter has replaced Lovie Smith as head coach.Those lauding Mike Evans’s breakout season may want to note that while he caught 74 passes last season, the team had to throw to him 148 times to accomplish that.Arizona Cardinals The veteran Carson Palmer had an electrifying career season for the Cardinals, and the offense was almost unstoppable in a 13-3 season. Linebacker Chandler Jones arrives from the Patriots, and the rookie defensive tackle Robert Nkemdiche earned rave reviews at Mississippi.Palmer got the first playoff win of his career last season and followed it up by looking as bad as possible in a crushing loss to the Carolina Panthers the next week. He is also 36, and the team has no reasonable plan for what they will do when he begins his inevitable decline.• • •Seattle Seahawks In his fourth season, Russell Wilson put it all together for the Seahawks and had the league’s highest quarterback rating. The defense was incredible as usual, allowing the fewest points in the league.Wilson will be going without Marshawn Lynch, and while Beast Mode was injured or ineffective for most of last season, the reality that the heart and soul of Seattle’s offense is truly gone will sink in at some point and could affect the team’s attitude, at the very least.• • •Los Angeles Rams The Rams return to Los Angeles for a fresh start and a fresh outlook. The new quarterback Jared Goff appears to have the talent of other No. 1 overall draft picks like Cam Newton, Eli and Peyton Manning and John Elway.All Goff has to do is be the face of the franchise for a team that is trying to sell itself to Los Angeles while he also learns to be an N.F.L. quarterback and tries to figure out how to best use dynamic but unconventional receivers like Tavon Austin and Pharoh Cooper. Should be easy.• • •San Francisco 49ers It did not work out for Chip Kelly in Philadelphia, but with nowhere to go but up for the 49ers, he can unleash his explosive Oregon offense and reinvent the league the way he was born to.Trent Baalke, the team’s general manager, never seemed comfortable sharing the credit for San Francisco’s success with Jim Harbaugh, and he fired Jim Tomsula for failing to succeed with a roster that had largely been gutted. So Kelly can seemingly look forward to being undermined if the 49ers win and fired if they lose.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor Mather and Benjamin HoffmanThe draft is over, and free agents have been signed. Training camps are springing to life around the country. It’s the peak moment for a feeling often in short supply among N.F.L. fans: optimism. There’s no reason all 32 teams can’t overachieve this year, right?Here’s a look at the league through the rose-colored glasses of late July by Victor Mather, and a somewhat more jaundiced view from Benjamin Hoffman:Denver Broncos The Broncos are on top of the pile as Super Bowl champions, and Von Miller’s contract is locked up. The retirement of Peyton Manning should not be too big a blow, as his numbers were anemic most of last season.Considering how limited Manning was in the Super Bowl, the Broncos essentially won a championship without a quarterback. If you liked that trick, you are going to love the team’s following it up by losing some significant players to free agency and replacing Manning with Mark Sanchez.• • •Kansas City Chiefs The Chiefs looked as good as anyone, ripping off 10 straight wins to conclude last season. Running back Jamaal Charles is set to return from injury to make the team even better.The N.F.L. has never been sentimental, but the Chiefs have become the anti-Hallmark card after Eric Berry fought his way all the way back from Hodgkin’s lymphoma to establish himself as one of the best defensive backs in the league and the team rewarded him with a protracted salary dispute that ended with his being franchise-tagged for the season.• • •Oakland Raiders They went out and signed guard Kelechi Osemele plus a strong defensive crew. Sean Smith, Reggie Nelson and the rookie Karl Joseph could take the secondary from good to excellent.With marked improvement last season, and several emerging stars, the Raiders appear to be on their way to legitimacy. Luckily, Mark Davis is providing plenty of distractions with talk of relocating the franchise, making things as difficult as possible for his players.• • •San Diego Chargers The Chargers grabbed receiver Travis Benjamin from the Browns to catch passes from the ageless Philip Rivers, who led the league in completions and attempts for the first time in his career.When the first thing mentioned by most people in relation to your team’s chances at improvement is the relative weakness of the other teams in your division, you know you are just a shade better than irrelevant.New England Patriots The nightmare of Deflategate is finally over for the Patriots, and Tom Brady is good to go for the final 12 games and the playoffs. His four-game suspension will help the team determine whether Jimmy Garoppolo is a long-term prospect to replace him.Brady knows all about handsome unknown backups thriving when given an opportunity, but any struggle by Garoppolo to adapt to a starting role could dig the team a rather deep hole.• • •New York Jets The Jets solved their chief off-season quandary by re-signing Ryan Fitzpatrick. They are well positioned for an injury setback at quarterback with Geno Smith and the rookie Christian Hackenberg. All three will have the pleasure of throwing to Brandon Marshall.Fitzpatrick played pretty well but failed to make the playoffs. It was a familiar feeling, as he has never appeared in the postseason and spent the past off-season being told by his own team that he is not nearly as good as he thinks he is.• • •Buffalo Bills The sky’s the limit for quarterback Tyrod Taylor of the Bills after his breakthrough performance in his first year as a starter, passing well and scaring defenses with his running ability. The running game looks strong again with LeSean McCoy returning.Rob Ryan was at the helm of terrible defenses in New Orleans and Dallas, so clearly he is the person bestsuited to right the ship in Buffalo alongside his brother, Rex, who despite his many successes has always been known more for his off-field drama than anything else.• • •Miami Dolphins The young coach Adam Gase is poised to turn the Dolphins around: He worked wonders with Jay Cutler in Chicago and can do the same with Ryan Tannehill. Miami straight-up stole offensive lineman Laremy Tunsil with the 13th pick of the draft after other teams were scared off by a silly video of college high jinks.Olivier Vernon is gone, Cameron Wake is working his way back from a devastating injury, and Ndamukong Suh’s production last season was nearly as bad as his attitude. The Dolphins are paid like a veteran-laden playoff team, but they rarely look like one.Cincinnati Bengals Andy Dalton was outstanding again for the Bengals, who are finally bound to win in the playoffs after five straight years of wild-card losses.Dalton lost two receivers and his offensive coordinator, and no one knows when Tyler Eifert, perhaps his favorite target, will be at 100 percent following ankle surgery.• • •Pittsburgh Steelers Behind Ben Roethlisberger and Antonio Brown, the Steelers had the second-best offense in the conference, trailing only New England. The team might well have gone all the way had Brown not been hurt and missed the playoff game against Denver.Not content with last season’s two-game suspension for violations of the league’s substance-abuse policy, Le’Veon Bell may be in line for a four-game ban to start this season after missing drug tests. That is nothing compared to Martavis Bryant, who will miss the entire year.• • •Baltimore Ravens The ace safety Eric Weddle arrives from San Diego, and the Ravens’ defense appears to be getting back to the glory days. The team should also return to consistency with Joe Flacco after starting four quarterbacks last season.Some people may love the movie “Wild Hogs,” but fielding a team with bunch of famous old players who are well past their prime and just seeing how things work out is not generally an effective strategy in the N.F.L.• • •Clevelend Browns Johnny Manziel and his soap opera are gone from the Browns. In his place is the exciting Robert Griffin III.The Redskins did not consider Griffin to be good enough to even have him suit up as a backup quarterback. The Browns have people believing he is a franchise savior. It is good for Cleveland that the Cavaliers and the Indians have done so well recently.Houston Texans A starter of seven games for last year’s Super Bowl winners, quarterback Brock Osweiler chose to join the Texans. The team also signed running back Lamar Miller from the Dolphins. And J. J. Watt returns to terrify opposing offenses.The Broncos thought so much of Osweiler that they preferred to put a severely limited version of Peyton Manning into their starting lineup to hand off the ball and hope for the best.• • •Indianapolis Colts After a disappointing season that was plagued by injury, quarterback Andrew Luck should return to the 40-touchdown numbers of 2014.Before Luck lacerated a kidney and missed a large chunk of last season, he was playing poorly and insisting he was not injured. The faith the team showed in giving Luck a gigantic new contract while declaring last season to be a fluke was commendable, as long as it actually was a fluke.• • •Jacksonville Jaguars They picked up the Super Bowl champion defensive tackle Malik Jackson and had a well-reviewed draft. Blake Bortles had the season’s longest completion, at 90 yards, and could be ready for a breakthrough in his third year as starter.There is optimism around the league for the Jaguars, but it is not hard to seem vastly improved when your team’s big off-season acquisitions in recent years were a video-game tent for bored fans and a very large scoreboard.• • •Tennessee Titans DeMarco Murray did not fit in Philly, but he could return to his huge Dallas numbers this year with the Titans. His running should open up the pass for the second-year quarterback Marcus Mariota.After signing a huge deal with Philadelphia last year, Murray did far more complaining than running. Apparently even he did not know that his previous success had largely been a result of the superb Dallas offensive line.Washington Redskins After two horrific years, the Redskins broke through with a division title last season. And now they have added the superstar cornerback Josh Norman from the Panthers.But there is a reason few quarterbacks have ever played with the franchise tag. Any player so tagged is theoretically too valuable not to lock up with a long-term deal. Enter Kirk Cousins, who has essentially been given a year to prove last season was not a fluke.• • •Philadelphia Eagles The Eagles have accomplished addition by subtraction, shedding Coach Chip Kelly, who was better suited to the college game, and the poor signing of DeMarco Murray. The first-rounder Carson Wentz is ready to deputize for, and eventually replace, the competent Sam Bradford at quarterback.For now, the best case is that the team remains competitive enough for Wentz not to get bored and tune out.• • •New York Giants The Giants signed their way to an elite defense, adding defensive tackle Damon Harrison from the Jets, cornerback Janoris Jenkins from the Rams and defensive end Olivier Vernon from the Dolphins. New Coach Ben McAdoo will keep the offense up to snuff, and Eli Manning is sure to have one more golden year in him.A good sign that your major off-season free-agent splash might have been too big a risk is when The New York Post runs a story with the headline “Olivier Vernon: Why I Won’t Be $85M Giants Bust.”• • •Dallas Cowboys After playing just four games last season for the Cowboys because of an injury, Tony Romo is ready to return to his customary health and excellence. Receiver Dez Bryant is also back after missing significant time last year. The No. 4 overall selection Ezekial Elliott of Ohio State could be a once-in-a-generation running-back talent.Hoping that Romo can stay on the field enough to make up for the team’s depleted defense is seemingly not the best strategy, given that he broke his clavicle twice last season and has not played 16 games in a season since 2012.Minnesota Vikings Last year’s Vikings shocked everyone by going 11-5. Their offensive line is often called the best in the game. Teddy Bridgewater is still only 23 and figures to keep improving. The defense is also first-rate, having given up the second-fewest points in the conference.But as good as Adrian Peterson looked last season, when he happened to be coming off an involuntary yearlong vacation, the fact remains that he is 31 and plays a position where 29 is old.• • •Green Bay Packers The nonpareil Aaron Rodgers of the Packers will have more to work with this year: Receiver Jordy Nelson is back after missing all of last season, and running back Eddie Lacy looks trim after being faulted for carrying too much weight last year. The team also has the easiest schedule in the league.That Lacy has spent the last several months insisting that he now cares about his conditioning and that he will take his weight seriously this season is plenty of cause for skepticism that it can be so easily fixed.• • •Detroit Lions After a 1-7 first half, the Lions made an assistant-coach shuffle and roared back to finish the season 6-2. They can carry that form into 2016. Marvin Jones is a solid signing at receiver.Jones has the small task of replacing Calvin Johnson, the man they nicknamed Megatron, who played only nine seasons but was so great that he may be a Hall of Famer anyway.• • •Chicago Bears The linebacker signings of Danny Trevathan from the Broncos and Jerrell Freeman from the Colts could revitalize the Bears defense.Things might not be so happy on offense, where the team’s best skill player is unquestionably Alshon Jeffery. He may also be the most discontented, as the team failed to sign him to a long-term deal, forcing him to play this season under the franchise tag.Carolina Panthers The Panthers had one of the best regular seasons in league history, with Cam Newton winning the Most Valuable Player Award. And that was without the injured Kelvin Benjamin, who will be back to catch those Newton passes after missing a year with a torn anterior cruciate ligament. 15-1? How about 16-0?One of the Panthers’ biggest weaknesses last season was depth at cornerback, where they were desperate enough to bring Cortland Finnegan out of retirement in hope of plugging the holes. Their big move of the off-season was releasing Josh Norman, a first-team All-Pro cornerback.• • •Atlanta Falcons The Falcons have added some useful pieces, like center Alex Mack from the Browns and receiver Mohamed Sanu from the Bengals. The amazing Julio Jones led the league in receptions and yards and probably will again.Matt Ryan, meanwhile, used to confuse pundits by being nearly unbeatable at home and simply O.K. on the road. Over the last three seasons, he has put those criticisms to rest by becoming rather mediocre no matter where he plays.• • •New Orleans Saints The Saints’ Drew Brees led the league in passing yards last year and will now have a new weapon: tight end Coby Fleener from the Colts. On defense, the Rob Ryan era is over, and former Raiders Coach Dennis Allen should improve the lackluster unit.The team appears on the upswing defensively just in time for Brees to be 37 and dealing with major shoulder problems and a depth chart that has rookie Michael Thomas as his No. 2 wide receiver.• • •Tampa Bay Buccaneers Last season for the Buccaneers was not as bad as their record indicated: They were 6-6 before a late-season swoon. Jameis Winston should improve in his sophomore season after a promising start, and the offensive-minded Dirk Koetter has replaced Lovie Smith as head coach.Those lauding Mike Evans’s breakout season may want to note that while he caught 74 passes last season, the team had to throw to him 148 times to accomplish that.Arizona Cardinals The veteran Carson Palmer had an electrifying career season for the Cardinals, and the offense was almost unstoppable in a 13-3 season. Linebacker Chandler Jones arrives from the Patriots, and the rookie defensive tackle Robert Nkemdiche earned rave reviews at Mississippi.Palmer got the first playoff win of his career last season and followed it up by looking as bad as possible in a crushing loss to the Carolina Panthers the next week. He is also 36, and the team has no reasonable plan for what they will do when he begins his inevitable decline.• • •Seattle Seahawks In his fourth season, Russell Wilson put it all together for the Seahawks and had the league’s highest quarterback rating. The defense was incredible as usual, allowing the fewest points in the league.Wilson will be going without Marshawn Lynch, and while Beast Mode was injured or ineffective for most of last season, the reality that the heart and soul of Seattle’s offense is truly gone will sink in at some point and could affect the team’s attitude, at the very least.• • •Los Angeles Rams The Rams return to Los Angeles for a fresh start and a fresh outlook. The new quarterback Jared Goff appears to have the talent of other No. 1 overall draft picks like Cam Newton, Eli and Peyton Manning and John Elway.All Goff has to do is be the face of the franchise for a team that is trying to sell itself to Los Angeles while he also learns to be an N.F.L. quarterback and tries to figure out how to best use dynamic but unconventional receivers like Tavon Austin and Pharoh Cooper. Should be easy.• • •San Francisco 49ers It did not work out for Chip Kelly in Philadelphia, but with nowhere to go but up for the 49ers, he can unleash his explosive Oregon offense and reinvent the league the way he was born to.Trent Baalke, the team’s general manager, never seemed comfortable sharing the credit for San Francisco’s success with Jim Harbaugh, and he fired Jim Tomsula for failing to succeed with a roster that had largely been gutted. So Kelly can seemingly look forward to being undermined if the 49ers win and fired if they lose.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe controversy surrounding Seattle Seahawks safety Earl Thomas III just got more controversial.Thomas, who has been in contentious negotiations over a contract extension, broke his leg Sunday in his team’s game against the Arizona Cardinals. As Thomas was carted off the field, he raised the middle finger on his right hand and appeared to point it at the Seahawks’ bench.[Read: What Happened in N.F.L. Week 4]The injury is likely to end Thomas’s nine-year career in Seattle, which included six Pro Bowl appearances and a Super Bowl title. He was the last remaining member of the Legion of Boom, the league’s dominant defensive backfield for several years.Thomas is in the last year of his four-year, $40 million contract. He was due to make $8.5 million this season.He held out during training camp because he wanted an extension worth more money, claiming he should be paid like a Pro Bowl-caliber defensive back. Only two-thirds of Thomas’s current contract is guaranteed, and his injury is likely to add fuel to the ongoing debate about why a greater percentage of player contracts aren’t guaranteed.Thomas feared getting injured during the preseason, and he missed two practices before the Seahawks played the Dallas Cowboys last week. Thomas said after the game, in which he made two interceptions, that he was investing in himself and that he expected to be fined for missing practice.Thomas’s injury occurred with about nine minutes left in the fourth quarter. Cardinals quarterback Josh Rosen threw a 22-yard pass to receiver Chad Williams. As Williams dove for the ball, Thomas planted his leg and flew over Williams as he hit the ground.According to Ian Rapoport of NFL Network, Thomas broke his lower leg but suffered no ligament damage. He should be ready to play by the Super Bowl.Seattle coach Pete Carroll said he did not know whether Thomas raised his finger and pointed it at the Seahawks bench.“Earl was extraordinarily poised on the field from what just occurred, to be so clear, and so resolved to what, he knew what happened,” Carroll said.Thomas did not speak to the media after the game.The touchdown tied the score at 17, but Seahawks kicker Sebastian Janikowski kicked a field goal as time ran out to win the game for Seattle, 20-17. After losing their first two games of the season, the Seahawks are now 2-2.But they face a tough road ahead without their All-Pro safety.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceMy relationship with bugs is probably a lot like yours: antagonistic but resigned to an extended leery détente, with occasional hostilities on both sides. The mosquito buzzes; I swat it aside. But insects also exert a queasy fascination — they’re so alien, and so ubiquitous, that they become ideal subjects for scientific study, and for books. In “Underbug,” one of our recommended titles this week, the journalist Lisa Margonelli takes a close look at termites and the entomologists who love them. Bonus for curious but grossed-out readers: The book includes no photos.If you like science writing but aren’t ready for termites, you might check out Mimi Swartz’s “Ticker,” about the historical quest to develop an artificial heart. We also recommend not one but two collections of sly meta-essays (by Brian Dillon and Ashleigh Young), along with a survey of the Supreme Court’s role in public education, an account of the true crime that served as a model for “Lolita,” a memoir by an undocumented immigrant, and new novels by Esi Edugyan and Robert Galbraith (or “Robert Galbraith”). And since football season is in full swing, this would be a good time to pick up Mark Leibovich’s new book, “Big Game: The NFL in Dangerous Times.” If nothing else, it will make you think about the league’s business model, and you’ll wince a little harder each time a player is carried off the field.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksESSAYISM: On Form, Feeling, and Nonfiction, by Brian Dillon. (New York Review, $15.95.) Brian Dillon is a “mournful, witty and original writer,” our critic Parul Sehgal says. In this book, he expresses his love for the form of the essay and for the work of those who have practiced it, including Elizabeth Hardwick, Susan Sontag and Montaigne. The “crystalline pieces” of this book, Sehgal says, offer “a sense, never belabored, of the stakes of creating essays and the consolations of loving them.”DEAR AMERICA: Notes of an Undocumented Citizen, by Jose Antonio Vargas. (Dey St./William Morrow, $25.99.) Jose Antonio Vargas came to America from the Philippines when he was 12 years old to live with his maternal grandparents. Now, 25 years later, Vargas’s mother is still in the Philippines and he is still in the United States, an undocumented citizen traveling around the country as an activist filmmaker and a writer. “Vargas came out as gay when he was 16. Coming out as undocumented took longer,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “The moments when Vargas describes how profoundly alienated he feels from his own family are the most candid and crushing parts of the book.”LETHAL WHITE, by Robert Galbraith. (Mulholland, $29.) This is Robert Galbraith’s fourth mystery featuring the detective Cormoran Strike. (Galbraith, as you probably know by now, is the Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, who adopted the pseudonym as a way to pursue a different strand of her career.) At the center of “Lethal White” is the well-connected, once-rich, dysfunctional, power-abusing, greedy and backstabbing Chiswell family. Our reviewer Sarah Lyall calls the novel “a big, stuffed-to-the-brim, complicated bouillabaisse of a book.”WASHINGTON BLACK, by Esi Edugyan. (Knopf, $26.95.) This eloquent novel, Edugyan’s third, is a daring work of empathy and imagination, featuring a Barbados slave boy in the 1830s who flees barbaric cruelty in a hot-air balloon and embarks on a life of adventure that is wondrous, melancholy and strange. “There are moments when the writing soars,” Colm Toibin writes in his review, “when Washington’s experience of the natural world is rendered in a prose that openly, almost exultantly, strives to evoke beauty. … Edugyan is careful, nonetheless, that her flying machine of a novel not fly too freely into the upper air.”CAN YOU TOLERATE THIS? By Ashleigh Young. (Riverhead, $26.) The New Zealand poet and essayist writes many sly ars poeticas in her collection — a lovely, profound debut that spins metaphors of its own creation and the segmented identity of the essayist, that self-regarding self. “Covert commentary on the writing process seems to lurk everywhere,” our reviewer, Alice Bolin, writes. “Young’s greatest skills are subtlety and silence, relating truths through allegory and meaningful detail.”BIG GAME: The NFL in Dangerous Times, by Mark Leibovich. (Penguin Press, $28.) A gossipy, insightful and wickedly entertaining journey through professional football’s sausage factory. “Reading ‘Big Game’ — a sparkling narrative — one gets the sense that, ‘dangerous times’ aside, the N.F.L. will survive on the magnetism of the sport it so clumsily represents,” David Oshinky writes in his review. “Pro football, minus the baggage, can be electrifying and redemptive.”THE REAL LOLITA: The Kidnapping of Sally Horner and the Novel That Scandalized the World, by Sarah Weinman. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Writing “Lolita,” Vladimir Nabokov drew on the real-life story of Sally Horner, a girl held captive for two years by a pedophile. Weinman’s history revisits that crime to complicate our view of the novel widely seen as Nabokov’s masterpiece. Diane Johnson, reviewing it, writes that Weinman’s book “provides extensive background for the Horner story,” and adds that “the achievement of her impressive literary sleuthing is to bring to life a girl whose story had been lost.”THE SCHOOLHOUSE GATE: Public Education, the Supreme Court, and the Battle for the American Mind, by Justin Driver. (Pantheon, $35.) This meticulous history examines rulings on free speech, integration and corporal punishment to argue that schools are our most significant arenas of constitutional conflict. “Driver has performed a service in assembling the stories of so many important education cases in one encyclopedic, fair and elegantly written volume,” Dana Goldstein writes in her review. “It will remain on my desk for years to come.”TICKER: The Quest to Create an Artificial Heart, by Mimi Swartz. (Crown, $27.) The long, arduous effort to invent and then perfect a machine that could stand in for the human heart offers Swartz a scandalous story filled with feuding doctors willing to stretch ethical boundaries to make great achievements. “Readers follow them beating long odds and proving naysayers wrong,” according to Sarah Zhang’s review. “They emerge as heroes, if slightly flawed ones.”UNDERBUG: An Obsessive Tale of Termites and Technology, by Lisa Margonelli. (Scientific American/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) Margonelli, who believes termites are underappreciated, makes her case via the researchers who study them — especially their ability to build the insect equivalent of a skyscraper. “Margonelli turns cutting-edge science into rich narrative by plunging deep into the termite’s world,” our reviewer, Lucy Cooke, writes. “Margonelli’s masterly book is a timely, thought-provoking exploration of what it means to be human, as much as what it means to be termite, and a penetrating look at the moral challenges of our ongoing technological revolution.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeThere are a multitude of ways to lose money in sports, and historically one of the most dependable ways is to start a professional football league. Charlie Ebersol knows this better than most. He had a front-row seat when his father, Dick, the longtime NBC executive, was a partner with the XFL for its only season in 2001.Still, Charlie Ebersol, a co-founder of yet another new league, the Alliance of American Football, is bullish on his chances to beat the market. And he argues that timing and technology are on his side this time.The A.A.F.’s 10-week season opens Saturday and ends before the N.F.L. draft. This is by design, Ebersol said.“It would be an act of insanity to try to compete with the N.F.L.,” he conceded.Instead, Ebersol intends to fill a post-Super Bowl vacuum and feed a viewing audience that he and his partners believe has an insatiable appetite for football.“Two hundred million watch college and pro football compared to the 130 million combined that watch the other major sports,” Ebersol said. “We don’t need to get all of those football fans to tune back in, but I like our chances of getting a significant chunk of them.”To do so, the A.A.F. is working to make its games easy to find. In addition to a deal to place some of its games on the NFL Network, the A.A.F. has agreements with CBS Sports’s networks, TNT and Turner’s B/R Live streaming service.But the A.A.F. business plan goes beyond football and television; it is hoping to land in a right-place-right-time moment in which sports betting is now legal and expanding in the United States. Eight states already offer gambling on sports contests, and by next year, sports betting could be legal in at least a dozen more.Anticipating and embracing interest from serious and casual gamblers, the A.A.F. has invested heavily in the technology and platforms that can provide data in a blink of an eye, all in the hope of transforming a minor league football broadcast into an interactive experience. Among the A.A.F.’s early investors were venture capital firms like Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund, media companies like the Chernin Group and the gambling and entertainment powerhouse MGM Resorts International.MGM executives said they were most taken by the A.A.F.’s app, which can provide a host of data in milliseconds. The information arrives so fast, in fact, that the league and its partners said it could eventually allow in-game betting on play outcomes — like pass or run — and a host of other propositions.“It’s a technology play,” Scott Butera, MGM’s president for interactive gaming, said of the A.A.F. “These specialty leagues will be relevant to sports betting. We think what they are doing is portable to other sports in terms of streaming, watching and making it an entertaining customer experience.”Ultimately, however, the A.A.F. will be judged by the quality of its football. To that end, a founder of the league, Bill Polian, a former general manager of the Buffalo Bills and a Pro Football Hall of Famer, has put together a league office of seasoned football people, including the former N.F.L. players Hines Ward and Troy Polamalu. The league owns all eight of the teams and has installed big-name veteran coaches — Steve Spurrier, Mike Singletary, Dennis Erickson, Mike Martz — in cities like Orlando, Memphis, Salt Lake City and San Diego.The league will lean on some gimmicks: There will be no kickoffs (teams will start on their 25-yard line instead) and no point-after kicks (only 2-point conversions allowed). And a so-called sky judge will keep watch over the action, empowered to correct officiating errors immediately.But some other innovations — no TV timeouts; completing games in two and a half hours; tickets priced no higher than $50; three-year, $250,000 contracts to hundreds of players — have raised questions about the league’s long-term economic viability.“There’s always been a belief that there’s room for spring football because of the game’s popularity,” said John Kosner, a longtime ESPN executive who now runs his own company, Kosner Media. The problem, he noted, is “no one has pulled this off before, so it’s not trivial what they are trying to do.”Kosner said the A.A.F.’s timing — just as sports betting tries to move into the mainstream of American culture — is fortuitous, since the amount of energy and venture capital investment available in sports right now is “unparalleled in my career.” He also suggested that Ebersol’s experience as a television and film producer would come in handy.“Charlie is smart, organized and patient, and best of all, he is a good storyteller,” Kosner said. “He can make the fans care about the game.”Seventy percent of the players signed so far have played in the N.F.L. in the past 18 months, a group that includes quarterback Aaron Murray (Atlanta Legends) and running back Trent Richardson (Birmingham Iron). All have been signed to a three-year base deal that includes not only the $250,000 salary but also what the league calls engagement bonuses. Those are based in part on their contributions to the community.And because the season is so short, all will be free to go to camp and sign with N.F.L. teams.“We are not trying to be sexy,” Ebersol said. “We just need to block and tackle on the field as well as off it.”For now, he is preaching patience.“This is going to take five to seven years, and there’s going to be empty seats at first,” Ebersol said. “I caution everyone that this is not going to be an overnight success. But we will succeed.”Follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrape.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Does the Mueller report matter?O.K., I’m being slightly provocative here. Of course it matters — for American democracy, for the Trump administration, and definitely for the 34 people Robert S. Mueller III indicted along the way.The fact that the president did not collude with Russians to pervert our democratic process is an outcome every American should cheer. And the White House is certainly right to be overjoyed: This is a victory for President Trump, lifting the fog of a special counsel investigation that had blanketed his presidency.But I would like to humbly submit that early reports of its influence on Mr. Trump’s re-election strength — or weakness — have been vastly overstated.I spent Saturday on the New Hampshire seacoast talking to Democrats about the Mueller investigation — a topic that did not come up at campaign events over the weekend, amid questions about health care, school shootings and climate change. When I asked voters why, the answer was almost always the same: Regardless of what the report said, they were sure Mr. Trump had done something wrong.Here’s how Jim Sullivan, a 72-year-old retiree, put it, after listening to Senator Amy Klobuchar at a town-hall meeting: ”I’d like to ask if she would support jail time for him.”Most Americans have already made up their minds about the president; it’s hard to see this report ushering a massive shift in public opinion. A recent Washington Post/ABC News poll found that only 5 percent of registered voters said they had no opinion about the president. A whopping 77 percent expressed strong opinions, on either side.In our hyperpartisan political world, the idea that the outcome of the special counsel investigation would dramatically reset dynamic of the 2020 race never felt particularly realistic.Are some Democrats deflated by the findings? Sure. But as Speaker Nancy Pelosi made clear a few weeks ago, impeachment under a Republican-controlled Senate was always a liberal pipe dream. Voters seem to recognize that: Polling by CNN last week showed that Democratic support for impeachment proceedings has fallen since the midterms. This report won’t significantly deflate their enthusiasm for defeating Mr. Trump.Are conservative Republicans bolstered by the findings? Of course. They see it as a vindication of an argument they’ve been making for months: Mr. Trump is the victim of a “witch hunt.” Attorney General William P. Barr’s positive interpretation of Mr. Mueller’s report will energize Mr. Trump’s base — but we are still 20 months from Election Day. A lot can, and likely will, happen with these findings in the next 588 days.The most significant political consequence of the Mueller report may be whether it sways those moderate Republicans turned off by Mr. Trump’s inflammatory style, particularly women in those suburban districts that sided with Democrats in 2018.We don’t know the answer to that question yet. But it’s fair to say that a lot of it will depend on how Mr. Trump handles the fallout from this investigation — and the myriad inquiries still being pursued by congressional Democrats and New York prosecutors.Can’t stop reading about this weekend’s bombshell? Peter Baker and Jonathan Martin analyze what it all means. We collect reaction across the political spectrum. And, here’s how Russia is receiving the news.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers. In today’s edition, readers sound off the movement to end the Electoral College.A large majority of responses were in support of ending the Electoral College, including this one from Gary Allen of Maryland:The presidential election should be based on the national popular vote. The House is gerrymandered, the Senate represents states regardless of population, the Supreme Court is appointed. At least one element of government ought to be based on “one citizen one vote.”A few readers wrote in to defend the Electoral College. Here’s a note we got from Edna Lampke:Only several states would decide the elections otherwise! Then the majority of America would stop voting altogether. Very unfair.Margaret Dickerson of Texas said a popular vote would make her feel like her vote actually counted:I support abolishing the Electoral College. I am a liberal Democrat and I live deep in the heart of Texas. Therefore my presidential vote literally doesn’t count. All votes should count.Sara Bhakti of Washington State wondered whether there was a third option:In a high school civics class, we were taught that the Electoral College protected the influence of states with smaller populations from the “tyranny of the majority.” That reasoning is compelling to progressive liberal me. I wonder what a truly fair system would look like — perhaps instant runoff voting?And finally, Ed Siebel of California reminded us that this debate is not exactly novel in the world of politics:In 1955-56, the topic in the NFL (you knew that’s the National Forensic League?) considered by high school debate teams was: “Resolved: the Electoral College should be abolished.” I ‘spect this has been considered in detail for some time prior to that, as well.If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed. But amid the Instagram-worthy adventures are tales of violence, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone.• Despite full Democratic control over state government, a monthslong effort to legalize marijuana in New Jersey collapsed on Monday.•  This story from Westword talks to survivors of the Columbine High School shooting. Nearly 20 years later, they still live with the trauma of that day.____________________National Puppy Day was this weekend — in other words, an excuse to post a picture of my dog!_____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bylensThe making of Sheila Pree Bright’s photo-mural of black women who had lost their sons gave a group of mothers a chance to tell their stories.By Fayemi ShakurThe past informs the present in the work of Sheila Pree Bright, who has been photographing the Black Lives Matter movement since 2014. As an artist who draws connections between today’s young activists and their civil rights forebears, she seemed a natural choice to be among 11 socially conscious artists selected to create murals highlighting Atlanta’s past, present and future in time for the Super Bowl, when the city will be in the spotlight.She knew she wanted to produce a photo-mural recalling the activism of the 1960s. She began her research and was captivated by a 1963 Richard Avedon photo of Julian Bond, co-founder of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the first president of the Southern Poverty Law Center. “He was holding his young daughter Phyllis in his arms, while young people from S.N.C.C. stood behind him,” Ms. Bright recalled. “I immediately thought of the mothers who lost their children to police brutality and other acts of racial violence, and I decided to center their story and photograph them.”Her realization that a single event can resonate in unexpected ways led her to seek out mothers whose children have died at the hands of the police. She sought out Felicia Thomas, a mother from Atlanta whose 23-year-old son, Nicholas Thomas, was killed when police officers from Smyrna, Ga., and Cobb County tried serving an arrest warrant at the auto shop where he worked. News accounts said Nicholas tried fleeing in a customer’s car and was killed when the police said he drove at them. No charges were filed against the officer who shot him.Ms. Bright and Ms. Thomas recognized something more than a photo shoot was needed. The two women had a shared vision to bring together a group of mothers who didn’t have a chance to tell their stories. They organized a three-day retreat, inviting about a dozen mothers from Atlanta and three other cities, including Samaria Rice, the mother of 12-year-old Tamir Rice from Cleveland; Oscar Grant’s mother, Wanda Johnson; and Eric Garner’s mother, Gwen Carr. Ms. Thomas called her friends and invited a chef to prepare meals. The women were treated to massages and given plaques to acknowledge their activism. It became a bonding experience.“The retreat brought us together so the moms didn’t feel like they weren’t alone,” Ms. Thomas said. “It was such a spiritual moment when all of the moms were there at the photo shoot and you could feel the camaraderie, love, joy and what we stand for. We also needed a break from it all to just have fun and get to know each other. It’s so important to take care of yourself. If you can’t take care of yourself, you can’t take care of your family and you can’t think clearly and move forward in the world.”The idea that the spotlight would be on Atlanta for the Super Bowl had inspired WonderRoot, a local arts organization, to launch its Off the Wall project  along with the city’s Super Bowl Host Committee. Ms. Bright saw it as an opportunity to share her vision and concerns with a much larger audience. “I show in a lot of galleries and museums but I love to connect with the masses outside of institutions,” she said. “Most murals are usually in marginalized communities. I wanted to go to the voices of the unheard and take something I was in conflict with and make something of beauty.”Ms. Bright photographed the women in Atlanta’s Vine City neighborhood, where Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Mr. Bond once lived. She spread rose petals on the ground, a visual nod to “The Rose That Grew from Concrete,” a poem by Tupac Shakur. She also invited another Atlanta native, the civil rights icon Dr. Roslyn Pope, to join the mothers for the portrait. Dr. Pope wrote “An Appeal for Human Rights,” the 1960 manifesto that inspired the Atlanta Student Movement’s efforts to end segregation.Before this project, Ms. Bright had spent time listening to the stories of elders. “I didn’t realize how much I didn’t know about the civil rights movement,” she said. “I also feel like we need to speak up more and through our shared communities, we can use our art as a form of activism. We all know what the problems are, but how can we move forward is the question. I want to talk about how these women are using their traumatic experience to influence policy.”She and Ms. Thomas know the project will also put the spotlight back on an athlete — and activist — who will not be on the field, Colin Kaepernick.“I think the NFL boycott has been one of the biggest and longest we’ve seen since the Montgomery bus boycott of the ‘60s,” Ms. Thomas said. “So many people didn’t know that Colin took a knee for our children. They thought he was taking a knee protesting the flag. Colin lost his job and his career for our families.”Fayemi Shakur is a writer and visiting lecturer at Rutgers University-Newark.Follow @nytimesphoto and @7fayemi on Twitter. You can also find us on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sam SiftonGood morning. The emails are starting to come in now from friends, the texts, the direct messages, the phone messages left in consideration and in haste: Just checking in about Thanksgiving. Had a couple questions. I imagine you do. We all do, even those of us who traffic in Thanksgiving for a living, who have written a book on the subject, who start cooking turkeys in September in search of recipes that we believe will someday bring someone somewhere joy: a Cantonese-style turkey (above), say; or a mojo-marinated turkey to evoke Cuba; a red-chile braised turkey that tastes of New Mexico; a jerk-style Jamaican turkey bright with thyme and allspice.The days run into one another, and all of a sudden we’re less than a month from the holiday and it’s worth asking: Do you have a plan? I realize it makes me into Mr. Hectoring Guy and I’m sorry, but the time to start drafting that plan is now. That action will pay off handsomely next month, I promise.So take a look at our Thanksgiving offerings today, if you would, and see if they don’t inspire you to bake some holiday pies this weekend as a practice session for November. Use our menu planner to see what you might cook alongside them. Get in the holiday spirit with a pumpkin pie milkshake. (It’s good!) At the very least, reach out to those who’ll be attending your Thanksgiving this year, to see what they’re interested in doing to make it better than the last one. Then use that information to start a list you’ll update for the next four weeks.Then check out this new recipe from Colu Henry for roasted carrots with cilantro, yogurt and peanuts. I think that’s a fine vegetarian main course on Saturday night, or a beautiful accompaniment to a simple roast chicken.Sunday is for apple-butter sticky buns with pecans and currants. (Isn’t it?) Also for making and devouring the best fried eggplant sandwich you can get on a Sunday when Defonte’s in Brooklyn is closed. Inside information: Omit the roast beef. It can be, as the kids on Montague Street say, a little extra.And, for dinner, make David Tanis’s excellent recipe for midnight pasta with garlic, anchovy, capers and red pepper. It is so, so great.Thousands and thousands more recipes to cook this weekend and for Thanksgiving are waiting for you on NYT Cooking. Please, if you don’t have one already, take out a subscription so that you can access them all. (Also, so that we can keep doing this. It’s a mutually beneficent kind of situation.)Please write us for help if you need any, either with the paperwork or the cooking. We’re at cookingcare@nytimes.com, and we love to help the same way those characters on the ski patrol love to help. (Soon we’ll have uniforms!) And, as ever, come visit us on social media. We’re on Facebook, on Instagram, on Twitter.Now, it doesn’t have a whit to do with hens or turmeric, and I don’t know how I missed its initial publication a few years ago, but it fell in my lap randomly and I’m here to say I love this great Patrick Symmes story in Outside, about the power of fly-fishing to mend lives: “The PTSD River Cure.”Our Parul Sehgal is wrestling with ghosts, and it’s great and spooky reading to be sure.Finally, holy cow this podcast series “Carruth,” from The Charlotte Observer, an investigation into the shooting of Cherica Adams in 1999 and the conviction of her boyfriend, the NFL star Rae Carruth, on charges that he hired a hitman to kill her.Have a great weekend. I’ll see you on Sunday.cookingcookingAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The 2019 Pulitzer Prize winners and finalists:JOURNALISMPublic ServiceSouth Florida Sun Sentinel for examining mistakes by school and law enforcement officials before and after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school shooting massacre in Parkland, Florida.Nominated as finalists: ProPublica for reporting on family separations at the U.S. southern border and The Washington Post for coverage of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi.___Breaking News ReportingStaff, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, for coverage of the massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue and its aftermath.Nominated as finalists: Staff, Chico Enterprise-Record in collaboration with the Bay Area News Group for coverage of the California wildfire and staff, South Florida Sun Sentinel, for coverage of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school shooting.___Investigative ReportingMatt Hamilton, Harriet Ryan and Paul Pringle, Los Angeles Times, for reporting on a gynecologist at the University of Southern California accused of abusing young women over decades.Nominated as finalists: David Barstow, Susanne Craig and Russ Buettner, The New York Times, for reporting on President Donald Trump's finances and Kathleen McGrory and Neil Bedi, Tampa Bay Times, for reporting on an increase in patient fatalities at a pediatric heart treatment center after Johns Hopkins came in.___Explanatory ReportingDavid Barstow, Susanne Craig and Russ Buettner, The New York Times, for their examination of family tax schemes that helped President Donald Trump inherit a fortune from his father.Nominated as finalists: Aaron Glantz and Emmanuel Martinez of Reveal from The Center for Investigative Reporting, Emeryville, California, in collaboration with The Associated Press, PRX and the PBS NewsHour, for an investigation into discrimination in the banking system; Kyra Gurney, Nicholas Nehamas, Jay Weaver and Jim Wyss of the Miami Herald for a look at a criminal operation centered around South American gold mining and reaching to Miami, and staff, The Washington Post, for stories about unsolved homicides in major American cities.___Local ReportingStaff, The Advocate of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, for an examination of the state's jury system and a law that allowed convictions without a unanimous verdict.Nominated as finalists: Barbara Laker, Wendy Ruderman, Dylan Purcell and Jessica Griffin of The Philadelphia Inquirer for stories on toxins in Philadelphia school buildings, and Brandon Stahl, Jennifer Bjorhus, MaryJo Webster and Renée Jones Schneider of the Star Tribune, Minneapolis, Minnesota, for a series on failures in the system to investigate and prosecute rapes.___National ReportingStaff, The Wall Street Journal, for stories disclosing payoffs during the campaign to two women who claimed to have had affairs with President Donald Trump, and how those transactions were handled.Nominated as finalists: Staff, The Associated Press, for coverage of the family separation policy of the Trump administration, and staff, The New York Times with contributions from Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian/The Observer of London, for reporting on tech firms' failure to protect private information and to allow the spread of misinformation.___International ReportingMaggie Michael, Maad al-Zikry and Nariman El-Mofty, The Associated Press, for stories on famine and torture during Yemen's civil war.The staff of Reuters, with contributions from Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, on stories on the expulsion and killing of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar by the military and Buddhist villagers.Nominated as finalist: Rukmini Callimachi, for her coverage of the Islamic State group.___Feature WritingHannah Dreier, ProPublica, for stories about Salvadoran immigrants in New York affected by a federal crackdown on MS-13.Nominated as finalists: Deanna Pan and Jennifer Berry Hawes of The Post and Courier, Charleston, South Carolina, for the story of a teen black boy wrongly convicted of the deaths of two white girls and only exonerated 70 years later, and Elizabeth Bruenig, The Washington Post, for a story on a teen sex assault victim and the crime going unpunished.___CommentaryTony Messenger, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, for columns showing how poor Missourians faced high fines or jail time over misdemeanor crimes.Nominated as finalists: Caitlin Flanagan, The Atlantic, for columns looking at gender and politics, and Melinda Henneberger, The Kansas City Star, for looking at sexism in a range of institutions including the hometown NFL team and the former governor's office.___CriticismCarlos Lozada, The Washington Post, for reviews and essays on books focusing on government and America.Nominated as finalists: Jill Lepore, The New Yorker, for stories on a range of subjects including Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Frankenstein, and Manohla Dargis, The New York Times, for pieces examining the role of movies in the world.___Editorial WritingBrent Staples, The New York Times, for editorials focusing on racial issues.Nominated as finalists: Editorial staff, The Advocate, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, for editorials calling for the abolishing of a Jim Crow-era law that allowed discrimination in the jury system, and editorial staff, Capital Gazette, Annapolis, Maryland, for reflections on gun violence and loss in the wake of a newsroom shooting.___Editorial CartooningDarrin Bell, freelancer, for cartoons taking aim at the Trump administration over political turmoil and the impact on marginalized communities.Nominated as finalists: Ken Fisher, drawing as Ruben Bolling, freelancer, for comics that offered political commentary and satire on the Trump administration, and Rob Rogers, freelancer, for illustrations that took aim at hypocrisy and injustice.___Breaking News PhotographyStaff, Reuters, for images following the difficult journey of migrants attempting to get to the United States from South and Central America.Nominated as finalists: Noah Berger, John Locher and Ringo H. W. Chiu of The Associated Press, for images of the 2018 fire season in California, and photography staff, The Associated Press, for images of clashes in the Gaza Strip between Palestinians and Israelis.___Feature PhotographyLorenzo Tugnoli, The Washington Post, for photographs documenting the famine in Yemen.Nominated as finalists: Craig F. Walker, The Boston Globe, for photos of a young boy with a complex developmental disability, and Maggie Steber and Lynn Johnson of National Geographic, for a photo story about the youngest face transplant recipient in the U.S.___Special CitationCapital Gazette, Annapolis, Maryland, in honor of the journalists, staff and editorial board for their response to the killings of their colleagues in a newsroom shooting.___LETTERS, DRAMA AND MUSICFiction"The Overstory" by Richard PowersNominated as finalists: "The Great Believers" by Rebecca Makkai and "There There" by Tommy Orange.___Drama"Fairview" by Jackie Sibblies DruryNominated as finalists: "Dance Nation" by Clare Barron and "What the Constitution Means to Me" by Heidi Schreck.___History"Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom" by David W. BlightNominated as finalists: "American Eden: David Hosack, Botany, and Medicine in the Garden of the Early Republic" by Victoria Johnson and "Civilizing Torture: An American Tradition" by W. Fitzhugh Brundage.___Biography or Autobiography"The New Negro: The Life of Alain Locke" by Jeffrey C. StewartNominated as finalists: "Proust's Duchess: How Three Celebrated Women Captured the Imagination of Fin-de-Siècle Paris" by Caroline Weber and "The Road Not Taken: Edward Lansdale and the American Tragedy in Vietnam" by Max Boot.___Poetry"Be With" by Forrest GanderNominated as finalists: "feeld" by Jos Charles and "Like" by A. E. Stallings.___General Nonfiction"Amity and Prosperity: One Family and the Fracturing of America" by Eliza GriswoldNominated as finalists: "In a Day's Work: The Fight to End Sexual Violence Against America's Most Vulnerable Workers" by Bernice Yeung and "Rising: Dispatches from the New American Shore" by Elizabeth Rush.___Music"p r i s m" by Ellen ReidNominated as finalists: "Still" by James Romig and "Sustain" by Andrew Norman.___Special CitationAretha Franklin, for her role in American music for more than 50 years.AdvertisementWe’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe collusion case against the N.F.L. brought by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick has been shrouded in mystery. Dozens of league executives and owners have been questioned, but their depositions remain confidential.But John Elway, the general manager of the Denver Broncos, gave a rare glimpse into the thinking of at least one executive who knows why his team has not signed Kaepernick, who became a free agent in March 2017.Elway told a reporter from NFL Network that he did not sign Kaepernick because the Broncos had offered the quarterback a contract once and he turned the team down.“Colin had his chance here,” Elway said. “We offered him a contract. He didn’t take it. So, as I said in my deposition, I don’t know if I’ll be legally able to say this, but he’s had his chance to be here. He passed it.”Elway’s comments come as an N.F.L.-appointed arbitrator weighs a motion by the N.F.L. to throw out the grievance brought by Kaepernick, who accused the N.F.L. of shunning him because he protested during the national anthem, sparking protests across the league.The N.F.L. asked the arbitrator, Stephen B. Burbank, to determine whether the evidence unearthed by Kaepernick’s lawyers was sufficient for the case to go forward.The N.F.L. is betting that Burbank will say no, and dismiss the case. But if Burbank ruled that Kaepernick’s lawyers had indeed gathered sufficient evidence for the case to proceed, then a full hearing, in a trial-like setting, would follow.Elway’s comments could affect that ruling. Burbank may look askance at Elway’s comments because the executive was prohibited from speaking publicly about them while the case is going on.More curiously, Elway did not include that he had offered Kaepernick a contract in advance of the 2016 season. The timing is relevant because Kaepernick had not yet begun protesting during the national anthem at that time, and he was set to receive $12 million from the 49ers. Kaepernick said no to Elway because in the potential trade he would have had to take a pay cut to join the Broncos.Elway’s reasoning that he did not sign Kaepernick when he became a free agent the following year also seems to fall apart in light of the fact that Denver had no trouble signing Brock Osweiler to a minimum salary deal after he had snubbed Denver to sign a lucrative free agent deal with the Houston Texans in 2016. Kaepernick would potentially have accepted similar terms to Osweiler in order to get back onto an N.F.L. roster.Elway did not say explicitly that he shunned Kaepernick because he protested during the anthem. But the reasons he gave for not offering him a free-agent contract could convince Burbank that, combined with other depositions and documents, are enough for the case to go forward.A ruling is expected in the next couple of weeks.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byKey moments in Kaepernick’s protests during the national anthem and the league’s response.By Victor MatherWhen Colin Kaepernick sat during the national anthem at an N.F.L. preseason game in 2016, it began a controversy that would involve dozens of players and owners, athletes in other sports and politicians, including the president of the United States.His gesture has led to two and a half years of protests, formal grievances and vigorous denunciations. With a settlement announced Friday in Kaepernick’s grievance case against the N.F.L., one chapter in the saga has come to an end. A timeline:Kaepernick, a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, remains seated during the national anthem for a home preseason game.“I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he tells NFL Media.Kaepernick had been outspoken about issues like protests by white supremacists and police shootings of unarmed black men.“If they take football away, my endorsements from me, I know that I stood up for what is right,” he says.The league initially responds by saying, “Players are encouraged but not required to stand during the playing of the national anthem.”Kaepernick’s act draws praise and criticism. Drew Brees, the quarterback of the New Orleans Saints, tells ESPN: “He can speak out about a very important issue. But there’s plenty of other ways that you can do that in a peaceful manner that doesn’t involve being disrespectful to the American flag.”Kaepernick kneels for the anthem in a preseason game in San Diego, instead of sitting, and is joined by a teammate, Eric Reid. He also announces he will donate $1 million to charitable organizations.“Once again, I’m not anti-American,” Kaepernick says. “I love America. I love people. That’s why I’m doing this. I want to help make America better.”Kaepernick is booed throughout the game by the home Chargers fans.President Barack Obama defends Kaepernick, saying, “I think he cares about some real, legitimate issues that have to be talked about.”Two days later, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., is more equivocal. Referring to Kaepernick, he tells The Associated Press, “I don’t necessarily agree with what he’s doing.”“I support our players when they want to see change in society, and we don’t live in a perfect society,” he adds. “On the other hand, we believe very strongly in patriotism in the N.F.L. I personally believe very strongly in that.”In Week 1 of the regular season, several more players kneel or raise a fist during the anthem. Four days later, Megan Rapinoe of the United States women’s national soccer team also kneels during the anthem. The entire Indiana Fever team of the W.N.B.A. kneels as well, as do other athletes around the country, including, over the next month, some high school players.Kaepernick protests throughout the N.F.L. season. He winds up starting 11 games, and the 49ers finish 2-14. Though the team is bad, Kaepernick’s adjusted yards per pass figure is a respectable 7.2. He has not played since.Kaepernick opts out of his contract, hoping for a better situation. But no offers come, though very average quarterbacks like Mark Sanchez, Mike Glennon, Josh McCown and E.J. Manuel find jobs.Many suggest Kaepernick is being blackballed.The preseason begins with Kaepernick still unsigned. Anthem protests continue, in part prompted by deadly violence in Charlottesville, Va. “The national anthem is a special moment to me,” Goodell says. “It’s a point of pride. That is a really important moment. But we also have to understand the other side that people do have rights and we want to respect those.”Anthem protests reach their peak after President Trump says those players who do not stand for the anthem should be fired. Many players skip the national anthem altogether. Dozens of others kneel or lock arms on the sideline, joined, in some cases, by team owners.Protests continue through the season, and Trump continues to fault the league for not disciplining players.Kaepernick, still unsigned, files a grievance against the N.F.L., accusing all 32 teams of colluding to keep him out of the league.N.F.L. owners, players and league executives meet to discuss the protests. An audio recording obtained by The New York Times reveals that players are aggrieved that Kaepernick has not found a job. Owners are intent on finding a way to avoid Trump’s continued criticism and say that large numbers of fans and sponsors have become angry about the protests.Reid, one of the players at the N.F.L. meeting, files a grievance against the N.F.L., saying the league has blackballed him. He is joined by the players’ union. (Reid is signed by Carolina in late September and plays in 13 games.)N.F.L. owners rule that players can no longer kneel during the national anthem without leaving themselves open to punishment. But the league also says athletes can stay in the locker room while it is being performed.Trump says that he is pleased with the N.F.L.’s new policy, but that he does not think the players should be staying in the locker room in protest. If a player is not standing for the national anthem, Trump says, “maybe you shouldn’t be in the country.”In July, the union files a grievance over the policy.A handful of players protests as the preseason begins, drawing more condemnation from Trump.Kaepernick achieves an important win in his grievance against the N.F.L. An arbitrator, Stephen B. Burbank, says lawyers for Kaepernick had unearthed enough information for the case to proceed to a full hearing.Kaepernick becomes the face and voice of Nike’s latest “Just Do It” campaign. Like so much else involving him over the previous two years, it draws praise and condemnation.During the Super Bowl, Kaepernick posts on his social media accounts images of athletes and celebrities wearing #imwithkap jerseys supporting his cause.The N.F.L. reaches settlements with Kaepernick and Reid in their grievance cases. Terms of the settlements are not disclosed, and the players and the league reach a confidentiality agreement.Victor Mather is a general assignment sports reporter and editor.    AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTV SportsBy Richard SandomirThose of us who love the unearthing of old relics of sports television were excited by the NFL Films’ reconstruction of Super Bowl I. Every play was found in the NFL Films archive and stitched together for Friday night’s presentation on NFL Network, which would have stood well on its own for a 90-minute broadcast, with added graphics, factoids and interviews spread out before, after or during breaks.But given the choice between letting viewers immerse themselves in lost history and overproducing, NFL Network took the latter course. The network could have taken the spirit of 1967 and relived the first Super Bowl without 21st-century excess. But it adopted the ethic of the multi-hour Super Bowl pregame show.What viewers got was a studio talk-a-thon, when all I believe they needed was something akin to the original experience of Jan. 15, 1967 (although no full tapes of the original CBS and NBC broadcasts seem to exist). A nostalgic excursion turned into a showcase for some of NFL Network’s voices. I’m not sure those who looked forward to seeing Super Bowl I again, or for the first time, cared what network voices like Terrell Davis, Daniel Jeremiah, Willie McGinest or Elliot Harrison had to say about the game. There was commentary during the game, a nearly constant chatter during the action that was unnecessary, especially when the speaker was anyone but one of the Green Bay Packers (Willie Davis) or the Kansas City Chiefs (Mike Garrett and Fred Williamson) who participated in the game, or Steve Mariucci, an NFL Network analyst and former San Francisco 49ers coach who grew up in Michigan as a passionate Packers fan. He seemed to nearly shiver with excitement sharing his memories of the game.The impact of the in-game commentary was to silence the actual NBC Radio call by Jim Simpson, who died on Wednesday, and George Ratterman. The host, Chris Rose, repeatedly had to announce that the network was returning to the play-by-play. A purely immersive experience would have been to let viewers watch the game without interference and to add commentary at breaks or at halftime. That was how MLB Network handled the 2010 rebroadcast of Game 7 of the Pittsburgh Pirates-Yankees World Series in 1960. The kinescopes of the game — which had not been seen since its original broadcast, the same as Super Bowl I — had been found in Bing Crosby’s old wine cellar. The game was shown in its original form — viewers heard Mel Allen and Bob Prince — and every few innings, players like Bobby Richardson, Dick Groat and Bill Virdon provided memories to Bob Costas before a theater audience that had gathered the month before in Pittsburgh.In that case, a return to the past was not diluted by too many voices or in-game chatting.That was the model NFL Network should have followed. It was overkill to have seven people take turns talking from the network’s studio. Some of it was relevant and interesting, but it should not have been done during the game. There were plenty of junctures to take a few minutes to interview the players and Mariucci, then return to the game, uninterrupted. It’s not as if the outcome was unknown or uncertain, so a few diversions lasting a few minutes would not have hurt the production. The network should have produced segments with all the players involved and used them optimally, rather than bringing a few into the studio and talking to others, like Len Dawson, Jerry Kramer and Dave Robinson, remotely. Kramer was especially good, mocking Williamson nearly a half-century after they played each other. But he and Robinson weren’t called upon until after the game. Well-produced segments — whether they were panel discussions or separate interviews — could have juxtaposed antagonists like Kramer and Williamson. Instead, the network taped everything on Thursday.The network missed a chance to use Williamson best. He was brought on during the second quarter but should have been brought back in the fourth, when he was knocked out of the game and taken off the field on a stretcher. He was still demonstrating his trademark bravado in the second quarter, diminishing how good Green Bay was; it would have been interesting to hear his reaction to being forced out of Super Bowl I and to hear the happy reaction of the Packers on the sideline.Email: sandor@nytimes.comAdvertisementby Margaret LyonsMay 31, 2018Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.“All or Nothing” turns its attention from NFL franchises to the legendary rugby team the New Zealand All Blacks in this newest six-episode installment. It’s a welcome change of pace, even if you don’t know much about rugby beyond its reputation for brutality and the fact that the All Blacks perform a Maori war dance known as a haka before their matches. The team is wildly successful, so the show is less about specific wins and more about the bane of all legendary franchises: complacency.“All or Nothing” turns its attention from NFL franchises to the legendary rugby team the New Zealand All Blacks in this newest six-episode installment. It’s a welcome change of pace, even if you don’t know much about rugby beyond its reputation for brutality and the fact that the All Blacks perform a Maori war dance known as a haka before their matches. The team is wildly successful, so the show is less about specific wins and more about the bane of all legendary franchises: complacency.The definitive brilliant-jerk show is already available to stream on Amazon, but will be free to stream on the NBC app and website for two weeks. While that’s not enough time to go through all 176 episodes of the show, you’re better off being more choosy anyway: Start with Season 1’s “Three Stories,” in which House (Hugh Laurie) weaves together three different cases as he tries to explain diagnostics — and his own issues — to a class of rapt medical students.The definitive brilliant-jerk show is already available to stream on Amazon, but will be free to stream on the NBC app and website for two weeks. While that’s not enough time to go through all 176 episodes of the show, you’re better off being more choosy anyway: Start with Season 1’s “Three Stories,” in which House (Hugh Laurie) weaves together three different cases as he tries to explain diagnostics — and his own issues — to a class of rapt medical students.This polished, vicious drama centers on the megawealthy Roy family, namely the four adult children vying for their successful, impossible father’s approval — and for portions of his corporation. Most desperate and thus most vulnerable is Kendall (Jeremy Strong), though don’t feel too sorry for him; he’s also monstrous in his ways. There’s a lot of zippy bad language and gleeful bad behavior, but the show’s core is one of despair.This polished, vicious drama centers on the megawealthy Roy family, namely the four adult children vying for their successful, impossible father’s approval — and for portions of his corporation. Most desperate and thus most vulnerable is Kendall (Jeremy Strong), though don’t feel too sorry for him; he’s also monstrous in his ways. There’s a lot of zippy bad language and gleeful bad behavior, but the show’s core is one of despair.Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jaclyn PeiserThe film mogul Darryl F. Zanuck was among the skeptics in the years before networks started broadcasting shows seven nights a week. “Television won’t be able to hold on to any market it captures after the first six months,” he infamously predicted. “People will soon get tired of staring at a plywood box every night.”To make sure that television sets would become something more than ungainly appliances, entertainment executives of the late 1940s and early 1950s went in search of programming. And they found it within earshot, in radio shows like “The Lone Ranger,” “Our Miss Brooks” and “Dragnet,” which were among the first TV hits.With the rise of streaming, the entertainment industry is going through a similar transformation. Executives at Netflix, Amazon and Apple are spending wildly for content, which has created a sense of urgency among their rivals at broadcast networks and cable channels. And like their midcentury predecessors, they have been aggressive about buying up ready-made programming to fill their expanding slates. These days, that means podcasts.“Homecoming,” the Amazon series starring Julia Roberts, is based on a fictional podcast from Gimlet Media. Bravo’s “Dirty John,” with Eric Bana in the role of the con man John Meehan, is based on a true crime series from The Los Angeles Times and the podcast network Wondery.Hernan Lopez, a former Fox executive who founded Wondery, has blurred distinctions between the podcasting world and Hollywood by giving his shows tag lines, trailers and advertising billboards. “I set out to create a company that could build on bringing to podcasting the skill set of television and movies, both in storytelling and production, as well as marketing,” he said.Amazon’s “Lore,” which was recently renewed for a second season, is another one that made the transition, having started as an anthology podcast of scary, real-life tales hosted by the writer Aaron Mahnke. “Up and Vanished,” a special that aired in November on Oxygen, was based on a podcast hosted by the documentary filmmaker Payne Lindsey about the disappearance of Tara Grinstead, a Georgia beauty pageant queen and high school teacher. The independent production company Propagate helped bring it to the screen.Ben Silverman, the co-chief executive of Propagate, said podcasts make for good source material partly because their fans are not passive. “It’s a very active process to download a podcast,” said Mr. Silverman, whose company is also working on an adaptation of “Sword and Scale,” a true crime podcast from Wondery. “And so we hope that fans of the podcasts are likely to be active enough to come and watch the show, once it gets produced.”Before the spate of narrative fare, talk and variety shows made the jump from audio to TV. “Comedy Bang! Bang!,” which started as a radio show before it became a much-downloaded podcast, had a five-year run on IFC. Following its leap from podcast to TV were “2 Dope Queens,” a series of live specials on HBO starring Jessica Williams and Phoebe Robinson, and “Pod Save America,” the political show, also on HBO, hosted by the writer and producer Jon Lovett and three men who worked under President Barack Obama, Jon Favreau, Dan Pfeiffer and Tommy Vietor.As podcasts have become more elaborate, with complex stories complete with cliffhangers, narrative reversals and subplots, the main action in adaptations has shifted toward scripted series.Mindful of the trend, Gimlet hired Jenny Wall, a former Hulu and Netflix executive, as chief marketing officer, to help the company better navigate Hollywood. “We created an I.P. factory,” Matt Lieber, the president of Gimlet, said. “We generate a lot of stories.”Among other shows it has in the works, Gimlet has teamed with Blumhouse Television, an arm of the company that made the film “Get Out,” to create a TV version of its limited-run horror podcast, “The Horror of Dolores Roach.”“Gladiator,” a podcast made by Wondery and The Boston Globe’s Spotlight investigative team focused on the NFL player Aaron Hernandez, who committed suicide after being convicted of murder, is in development at FX. Other Wondery shows in the works for TV are “Dr. Death,” about a neurosurgeon accused of malpractice, and “Business Wars,” a series centered on corporate rivalries. Janet Leahy, a “Mad Men” writer, has written the “Business Wars” pilot.Facebook Watch has ordered 10 episodes of “Limetown,” based on a fictional podcast about the disappearance of 300 people at a research facility in Tennessee. Jessica Biel has signed on as an executive producer and lead actor, and the podcast’s creators, Zack Akers and Skip Bronkie, are on board as the show’s writers.“Welcome to Night Vale,” the long-running podcast (and book series) created by Joseph Fink and Jeffrey Cranor in 2012, is in development at FX. Gennifer Hutchison, the executive producer of “Better Call Saul,” is in charge, and Sony Pictures Television is a producing partner.The director and producer Sam Raimi is part of the team aiming to make a TV series out of “Tanis,” a fictional horror podcast created by Terry Miles. That one is being produced by Dark Horse Entertainment and Universal Cable Productions. The same two companies are at work on an adaptation of “The Bright Sessions,” a sci-fi podcast created by Lauren Shippen. Ms. Shippen and Gabrielle G. Stanton, an alumna of “Grey’s Anatomy,” are writing it.Not every podcast survives the move from the intimacy of audio to the brighter, broader medium of television. The ABC sitcom “Alex, Inc.,” based on the Gimlet podcast “Start Up,” lasted all of 10 episodes. But in a time of expansion, with demand outstripping supply, executives at podcast companies know they have something the entertainment industry needs.“We’ve prepared most of the meal,” said Mr. Lieber, of Gimlet. “Now you just have to put it on the table and eat.”Zach Wichter contributed research.Follow Jaclyn Peiser on Twitter: @jackiepeiser.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherDonald Trump on Monday added Marshawn Lynch to the list of sports figures he has criticized on Twitter.Lynch has been regularly sitting during the national anthem this season and did so again when his Raiders played the Patriots in Mexico City on Sunday. Lynch then stood, though not at attention, during the playing of the Mexican anthem.Trump’s first tweet of the day Monday took Lynch and the N.F.L. to task: “Marshawn Lynch of the NFL’s Oakland Raiders stands for the Mexican Anthem and sits down to boos for our National Anthem. Great disrespect! Next time NFL should suspend him for remainder of season. Attendance and ratings way down.”Marshawn Lynch of the NFL’s Oakland Raiders stands for the Mexican Anthem and sits down to boos for our National Anthem. Great disrespect! Next time NFL should suspend him for remainder of season. Attendance and ratings way down.Trump’s tweet came at 6:25 a.m. on Monday. Shortly after 6, “Fox and Friends,” a program that has prompted quite a few of Trump’s tweets, had broadcast a report on Lynch’s actions.Trump has regularly criticized N.F.L. players for not standing for the anthem this season. Generally though, he has avoided singling out players by name.“Two dozen NFL players continue to kneel during the national anthem, showing total disrespect to our Flag & Country. No leadership in NFL!” he tweeted last month.Vice President Mike Pence walked out of a Colts game before it started last month when some players did not stand for the anthem.Lynch was seen wearing a T-shirt reading “Everybody vs. Trump” before a game in October. On Sunday, he wore cleats with a Mexican flag theme.Both anthems were cheered at the game. Giant flags of both nations were unfurled to the cheers of the crowd, which included a significant number of Americans.The N.F.L. has said it prefers that players stand for the anthem but has not taken any disciplinary action against those who choose not to.On Sunday, Trump went after LaVar Ball, the father of one of the U.C.L.A. players who were detained in China on suspicion of shoplifting. Apparently angry that Ball had played down Trump’s role in the players’ release, the president went so far as to suggest that they should have been left in a Chinese prison.“Now that the three basketball players are out of China and saved from years in jail, LaVar Ball, the father of LiAngelo, is unaccepting of what I did for his son and that shoplifting is no big deal. I should have left them in jail!”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Phil BarberLa’Roi Glover was director of player programs for the St. Louis Rams when the team drafted Aaron Donald, a defensive tackle out of Pittsburgh, in the first round of the 2014 draft. As a former interior lineman, Glover took great interest in the rookie. And Donald, it turned out, took great interest in his craft.“I’d usually get to the office around 5, 6 in the morning. I’d get there, and Aaron Donald would be there by himself, watching tape,” said Glover, now an assistant defensive line coach for the Jets. “He wouldn’t say two words. He’d get to the building early and go to work. And lift everything in the weight room. On the practice field, he took it very, very seriously. You can see why he’s having the success he’s having today.”Man, the success he’s having today. The Rams are 12-3, and Donald has made himself a candidate for the N.F.L.’s Most Valuable Player Award. With 19.5 sacks, atop the rankings, he has already set a league record for true defensive tackles and, with a game left, has an outside chance of reaching the single-season mark for all players (22.5), set by Giants defensive end Michael Strahan in 2001. Donald is also attempting to become the first interior lineman to lead the N.F.L. in sacks since Glover did it in 2000, when he racked up 17 for the New Orleans Saints.Donald is a singular talent. As Denver Broncos guard Connor McGovern told Sports Illustrated’s Robert Klemko, “He can scratch his knees standing up, but he still has that natural pad level where he can lift you up and forklift you.”But Donald, the 27-year-old Rams star, is not alone this year in reasserting the pass-rush bona fides of interior linemen. The Kansas City Chiefs’ Chris Jones, boxed in by better-known outside linebackers in Justin Houston and Dee Ford, is outdoing both of them and is second in the N.F.L. with 15.5 sacks. The San Francisco 49ers’ DeForest Buckner, the Cincinnati Bengals’ Geno Atkins, the Indianapolis Colts’ Denico Autry, the Seattle Seahawks’ Jarran Reed and the New Orleans Saints’ Sheldon Rankins all rank in the top 25.Until recently, few teams could claim a dominant pass-rushing interior defensive lineman. In 2011, not a single tackle or nose tackle appeared in the top 25 of the sack list. The next year, 2012, one defensive tackle showed up. That was Atkins, who tied for sixth with 12.5 sacks. As recently as 2016, there were no interior players in the top 17.But this year, the N.F.L. pass rush is being turned inside out.Kyle Shanahan, the 49ers’ head coach, has an athletic young disrupter in Buckner and a twice-a-year headache in Donald. He knows the value of inside pressure.“You can have guys get up the field all day, and if there’s nothing in the middle, all the quarterback has to do is step up and just let those guys run around them and have a true pocket,” Shanahan said.Before we get too settled in the pocket, though, we should probably talk about defensive line position. Between 350-pound nose tackles and fast-twitch edge rushers resides a lot of gray area. That is especially true for 3-4 defensive ends, who play a hybridized role. Official team depth charts do not always indicate where players are really lining up.Pro Football Focus provided positions for this article, but some players are hard to pin down. Such as J. J. Watt. The website listed the Houston Texans defender as an interior lineman in 2012 and 2015; he led the N.F.L. in sacks both years.Watt’s alignment had already begun to move outside by 2015, though, when he was frequently stationed opposite an offensive tackle but with an outside linebacker even farther afield. Pro Football Focus now considers Watt an edge rusher.Hybrids aside, why are so many defensive tackles supplanting outside rushers on the sack charts?Akbar Gbaja-Biamila, an outside linebacker/defensive end for three N.F.L. teams from 2004 to 2007 and now an analyst for NFL Network, said it was largely because of that wider trend everyone is talking about in 2018: the emphasis on passing.As Gbaja-Biamila noted, the league still deploys three-technique defensive tackles who line up on the guard’s outside shoulder. But with pass rushing so much more important than gap stuffing, they are more likely to play a “loose-3” (shaded toward the gap) than a “tight-3” or “heavy-3” (shaded toward the guard, so he cannot muscle them to one side).Suddenly, defensive tackles are finding themselves with more aggressive license.“I remember the first time we prepared for Michael Vick when I was with the Raiders,” Gbaja-Biamila said. “The coaches’ butts were so tight: ‘You’ve got to keep him in the pocket! You can’t let him run!’ He put the fear of God in not only the players, but in the coaches.”The presence of dynamic passers like the Chiefs’ Patrick Mahomes has changed things, he said. “Passing is at such a high premium now, with Mahomes throwing a gazillion touchdowns, that coaches have lightened up on the way they’re teaching. They’re allowing more freedom to defensive tackles.”It makes sense to get the most athletic sackers out in space, where they do not have as much traffic to work through. But if you have someone inside like Donald who can overcome the double-teams and chips, well, that carries a logic of its own.As Shanahan said, “If you’ve got a real good pass rusher, wouldn’t you want him to be closer to the quarterback than farther away?”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jason M. BaileyWhen LeBron James bounds down a basketball court, he is both a transcendent athlete and a prominent palette for dozens of tattoos. His mother’s name, Gloria, rests on a crown on his right shoulder and his forearms bear a portrait of his son LeBron Jr. and 330, an area code for his hometown, Akron, Ohio.Although those tattoos have personal connections, they may not truly be his.Any creative illustration “fixed in a tangible medium” is eligible for copyright, and, according to the United States Copyright Office, that includes the ink displayed on someone’s skin. What many people don’t realize, legal experts said, is that the copyright is inherently owned by the tattoo artist, not the person with the tattoos.For most people, that is not a cause for concern. Lawyers generally agree that an implied license allows people to freely display their tattoos in public, including on television broadcasts or magazine covers. But when tattoos are digitally recreated on avatars in sports video games, copyright infringement can become an issue.“Video games are an entirely new area,” said Michael A. Kahn, a copyright lawyer who represented the designer of the face tattoo on the boxer Mike Tyson. “There is LeBron James, but it’s not LeBron James. It’s a cartoon version of him.”Electronic Arts, a game developer and publisher, recreates more than 100 tattoos in its FIFA and UFC games, including the colorful sleeve on the right arm of the soccer star Lionel Messi and a heart-eating gorilla on the chest of the fighter Conor McGregor. Yet only a handful of players in its Madden football games are depicted with their real-life ink.Spokesmen for Electronic Arts did not respond to requests for comment. The company faced a copyright infringement lawsuit after the cover of the game NFL Street included an illustration of the running back Ricky Williams and some of his tattoos, but the artist withdrew his claim in 2013.Players’ unions, many of which license the players’ likenesses to video game publishers, and sports agents have advised athletes to secure licensing agreements before they get tattooed. Artists have an incentive to sign rather than pass up a client who could be a billboard for their work.Gotti Flores said he has spent at least 40 hours tattooing the N.F.L. receiver Mike Evans, one of the few players with tattoos in Madden. He was surprised, he said, that he had to give permission for his work to be reproduced in the game.“Really it didn’t even matter to me,” said Mr. Flores, who signed a waiver for no compensation. “It was dope to have my tattoos on there.”Not all tattoo licensing happens so amicably.At least three lawsuits have been filed against Take-Two Interactive, a game developer and publisher, and a subsidiary, 2K Games. A federal court ruling in any of the cases could have a ripple effect among sports video games, which emphasize realism.The company Solid Oak Sketches obtained the copyrights for five tattoos on three basketball players — including the portrait and area code on Mr. James — before suing in 2016 because they were used in the NBA 2K series. The following year, an artist sued because the Gloria tattoo on Mr. James, among others, was included in the same franchise. And in April, another artist sued because her tattoos on the wrestler Randy Orton had been included in several iterations of WWE 2K.Shawn Rome and Justin Wright, two of the three tattoo artists who licensed their work to Solid Oak, said they had been deceived by its founder, Matthew Siegler, and never desired a lawsuit. He approached them with a plan to incorporate their tattoo designs into a clothing line, they said, but it went nowhere.“He’s just poaching on artists,” Mr. Rome said.Before filing its lawsuit, Solid Oak sought $819,500 for past infringement and proposed a $1.14 million deal for future use of the tattoos.Mr. Siegler did not respond to requests for comment. His primary lawyer, Darren Heitner, said that Take-Two used the copyrights without permission, and that Mr. Siegler wanted to be fairly compensated. Peter C. Welch, associate general counsel for Take-Two, said he could not comment on pending litigation. A spokeswoman for 2K Games said it does not comment on legal matters.Solid Oak’s lawsuit amounts to a shakedown and copyright trolling, said a law professor, Christopher Jon Sprigman, who teaches about intellectual property at New York University.“They shouldn’t be allowed to tell LeBron James that he can’t make deals to license his likeness,” he said. “The ability of the celebrity, or really anyone, to do that is an element of their personal freedom.”Take-Two has argued in court papers that Solid Oak’s tattoos are seen rarely, fleetingly and hazily in the NBA 2K games, but the judge rejected a motion for dismissal in March.A verdict for either side would set an important precedent on how the owner of a tattoo copyright can enforce it, said Yolanda M. King, an associate law professor at Northern Illinois University who has extensively studied the issue.Determining actual damages is difficult in copyright cases, however. In a lawsuit against the game developer and publisher THQ, which dissolved in 2013, a tattoo artist sought $4.16 million after his tattoo was used in the UFC Undisputed games. A bankruptcy court judge decided that the tattoo, a lion on the right side of the fighter Carlos Condit, had a value of $22,500, and the parties reached a confidential settlement.Although video game companies already pay to license copyrighted music, they may want to avoid the cost — as well as the logistical burden — of negotiating with hundreds of artists for rights to their tattoos.“From a business perspective it would be more feasible to strip them from the game, or to put some type of designs in the public domain on their bodies,” Professor King said.That would be a departure from the mission of publishers like 2K Games, which has tried to replicate basketball players as closely as it does their teams’ uniforms, playbooks and arenas.“My tattoos are a part of my persona and identity,” Mr. James wrote in a declaration of support for Take-Two and 2K Games. “If I am not shown with my tattoos, it wouldn’t really be a depiction of me.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe most recent, less than Super Bowl notwithstanding, the N.F.L. continues to be a behemoth, dominating the sports landscape in revenue, attendance and television ratings.That popularity has over the years tempted entrepreneurs to try to cash in by starting professional football leagues of their own. The latest effort is the Alliance of American Football, which plays its first games on Saturday.There have been plenty of pretenders to the N.F.L.’s crown over the years. None have succeeded, but all had their share of novelty.Season July to DecemberWeird rules A touchdown was worth seven points; teams could then go for a conversion from scrimmage for one more “action point.” No sudden-death overtime; a full 15-minute quarter was played. No preseason.Champion Birmingham AmericansOdd team names The Hawaiians (Honolulu), Charlotte Hornets, Memphis Grizzlies, Shreveport SteamerBig-name owner John B. Kelly Jr. (Princess Grace’s brother) of the Philadelphia BellBig-name coaches Jack Pardee, Florida Blazers; John McVay, Memphis SouthmenBig-name players Ken Stabler, Birmingham; Bill Bergey, Florida; Larry Csonka and Jim Kiick, MemphisUnlikely city Shreveport, La.Strange occurrence A restraining order was served on defensive lineman John Matuszak by his N.F.L. team, the Houston Oilers, in the middle of a game, forcing him to stop playing for the Houston Texans.TV The syndicated TVS networkThe Times said: “The dye on the footballs may still be wet and the players may not he able to keep dry in the stifling heat, but the World Football League brings midweek, midsummer football to the nation’s sports life tonight.”Legacy Gave a start to Coach Marty Schottenheimer; broke ground for professional football in the South.Season March to JulyWeird rules Allowed 2-point conversion (later adopted by the N.F.L.)Champions Michigan Panthers, Philadelphia Stars, Baltimore StarsOdd team name Pittsburgh MaulersBig-name owner Donald J. Trump, New Jersey GeneralsBig-name coaches George Allen, Chicago Blitz; Marv Levy, Chicago; Jim Mora, Philadelphia and BaltimoreBig-name players Herschel Walker, New Jersey; Reggie White, Memphis Showboats; Jim Kelly, Houston Gamblers; Steve Young, Los Angeles ExpressUnlikely city Tulsa, Okla.Strange occurrence The Chicago Blitz was traded in its entirety — players, coaches and assets — for the Arizona Wranglers.TV ABC and ESPNThe Times said: “Yesterday’s opening of the U.S.F.L. season occurred only five weeks after Super Bowl XVII, meaning pro football now exists for 11 months. It’s as if another baseball league was formed with a season that opened in December.”Legacy Introduced instant replay for officials’ rulings; won antitrust lawsuit against the N.F.L. but was awarded only $3 in damages.Season February to AprilWeird rules Players could have nicknames on their jerseys; two players raced for the football to determine opening possession; no fair catches.Champion Los Angeles XtremeOdd team names New York/New Jersey Hitmen, Memphis ManiaxBig-name owner All teams owned by World Wrestling Federation and NBCBig-name coaches Ron Meyer, Chicago Enforcers; Al Luginbill, Los AngelesBig name players Rod “He Hate Me” Smart, Las Vegas Outlaws; Rashaan Salaam, MemphisStrange occurrence A double overtime game caused “Saturday Night Live” to be delayed by 45 minutes, infuriating the producer Lorne Michaels. Subsequently, NBC cut away from the games at 11 p.m. even if they were not over.TV NBCThe Times said: “Like a blight that has crept from the low-rent fringes of cable to network prime time, the XFL mingles violence, voyeurism and even politics into one trashy Saturday night show.”Legacy Unusual camera angles, including Skycam; a return planned for next year.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Blitzes limited to six players; single-bar face mask permitted.Champions Las Vegas Locomotives (three times), Virginia DestroyersOdd team name Florida TuskersBig-name owners Mark Cuban was an investor. Joe Theismann, Florida.Big-name coaches Jerry Glanville, Hartford Colonials; Jim Fassel, Las Vegas; Jay Gruden, FloridaBig-name players Brooks Bollinger, Florida; Graham Gano, Las Vegas; Maurice Clarett, Omaha Nighthawks; John David Washington, Denzel’s son, Sacramento Mountain LionsUnlikely city Virginia BeachStrange occurrence The “New York” Sentinels played one home game in Hartford, one in New Jersey and one on Long Island.TV Versus and CBS Sports NetworkThe Times said: “Reports of the U.F.L.’s impending death have been around as long as the league.”Legacy Had female officials, including Sarah Thomas, who is now in the N.F.L.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Kicks taken from wider hash mark; extra points from 35 yards.Champions Brooklyn BoltsOdd team names Florida Blacktips, Hudson Valley FortBig-name owner Teams were owned by the league.Big-name coach Terry Shea, maybe? (a former N.F.L. quarterbacks coach and Rutgers head coach)Big-name player Josh Freeman, BrooklynUnlikely city Fishkill, N.Y.Strange occurrence The Florida Blacktips were a traveling team that had no home stadium. The 2014 championship game was canceled, and Brooklyn declared the champion.TV ESPN3 and syndicatedThe Times said: “Tonight’s contest, against the Boston Brawlers, will be the first pro football game played in New York City since the Jets’ farewell to Shea Stadium in 1983.”Season February to AprilWeird rules No kickoffs; drives start from 25; 2-point conversions required.Champions T.B.D.Odd team name San Diego FleetBig-name owner Charlie Ebersol, son of the t executive Dick Ebersol, is a founder.Big-name coaches Steve Spurrier, Orlando Apollos; Mike Singletary, Memphis Express; Rick Neuheisel, Arizona HotshotsBig-name players Trent Richardson, Birmingham Iron; Zach Mettenberger, MemphisStrange occurrence Sites are already taking betting on the new league. BetDSI has the Arizona Hotshots as the favorites.TV CBS, CBS Sports Network, TNT and NFL NetworkThe Times said: “The Alliance of American Football, though, will have to overcome the obstacles that others could not, including runaway expenses, limited media exposure and a lack of fans.”Maybe a fierce rivalry will develop between San Diego and Phoenix. Maybe a player will break out the way “He Hate Me” did in the XFL. Maybe Coach Spurrier will recapture his magic. The Alliance will have to roll a Yahtzee to succeed in the shadow of the N.F.L. But even if it fails, you can bet someone will soon line up to try again.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirLee Leonard, an urbane host of sports and entertainment programs who introduced ESPN to a small audience on the day of its debut in 1979, died on Sunday at his home in South Orange, N.J. He was 89.His wife, Kelly Bishop, confirmed his death.Mr. Leonard was a well-regarded veteran of local and national sports studio shows when executives at ESPN, which was just getting off the ground, asked him to be a co-anchor of “SportsCenter,” envisioned as the network’s flagship news and highlights program. And it was “SportsCenter’s” inaugural broadcast that launched the network, with Mr. Leonard delivering its first words, on Sept. 7, 1979, setting ESPN on its path to becoming a television empire.“If you’re a fan — if you’re a fan — what you’ll see in the next minutes, hours and days to follow may convince you you’ve gone to sports heaven,” Mr Leonard said.After a montage of sports footage, he added, “Yea, verily, a sampler of wonders.”George Grande, his co-anchor, said in a phone interview that their first show fell eight minutes short and that they had to ad-lib till the end. “I said to Lee, ‘Are you in favor of a football playoff?’ ” Mr. Grande said, “and we flipped a coin and took sides to show what SportsCenter could be.”Mr. Leonard brought maturity to the fledgling network. By then he had been a disc jockey, radio talk show host and the co-host with Bill Mazer of a pioneering Sunday night program — “Sports Extra” on WNEW-TV in New York — that provided extensive highlights, scores and commentary.“I loved his attitude,” Bob Ley, a longtime ESPN anchor said of Mr. Leonard in a telephone interview. “Sometimes he’d say, ‘Let’s get this show written so we can hang out and tell some lies.’ He was straight out of ‘The Front Page.’ ”Mr. Leonard stayed at ESPN — which stood for the Entertainment and Sports Programming Network — for about six months, disappointed that it did not live up to the entertainment part of its title and give him a platform to cover show business.“I was tired of sports,” he told the author James Andrew Miller for “Those Guys Have All the Fun” (2011), an oral history of ESPN. “So when it became obvious to me that there wasn’t going to be any entertainment, brilliant me, I thought this thing was never going to work. So my agent called me and said, ‘There’s this crazy guy, Ted Turner, who’s doing a news network.’ ”The network was CNN, which started up in 1980, and it gave Mr. Leonard the entertainment outlet he wanted, a show called “People Tonight.” But his time as its host did not last long. He was replaced in 1982 by Mike Douglas, the longtime syndicated talk-show host.Mr. Leonard subsequently returned to CNN for several years in the 1980s to host “Showbiz Today.”In 1986, Mr. Leonard published a novel, “I Miss You When You’re Here,” about a disc jockey who becomes the star of a network television show. Mr. Leonard gave the lead character, Maxwell Lefkowitz, his real name.Maxwell Lefkowitz was born on April 3, 1929, in New York City to Daniel Lefkowitz and Estelle (Cohn) Lefkowitz a beautician. After graduating from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, he attended Columbia University but did not graduate. He served in the Army in Germany during the Korean War.He became interested in broadcasting in the Army, and after his discharge worked as a disc jockey in various cities, including Norfolk, Va., and Cincinnati. In 1964, he was hired by WNBC-AM in New York as the host of a daytime talk show. Early on in his career he changed his name to Lee Leonard.Mr. Leonard moved to local television in 1971 as the host of “Midday Live,” a talk show on WNEW in New York. A year later he was teamed with Mr. Mazer on “Sports Extra,” which was something of a prototype of ESPN’s “SportsCenter.” Mr. Leonard’s sophisticated and occasionally sarcastic style blended well with Mr. Mazer’s passionate approach and encyclopedic recall of sports facts and figures. (Mr. Mazer died in 2013.)A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018Mr. Leonard moved on from both jobs within several years to NBC Sports, where he hosted “Grandstand,” a pregame studio show, and later “NFL ’77,” with Bryant Gumbel. Mike Weisman, a former top producer at NBC, recalled in an interview that Mr. Leonard could be flippant; in one instance he told viewers that a football game with many close plays that had ended with a 3-0 score “had no highlights.”In 1976, the Chicago Tribune media critic Gary Deeb wrote that Mr. Leonard’s erudition had elevated “Grandstand,” which had previously been hosted by Jack Buck, the longtime announcer for the St. Louis Cardinals.“Besides being able to talk intelligently,” Mr. Deeb wrote, “Leonard also possesses a talent shared by few other sportscaster — he’s a fine writer.”But he was fired in 1978 by Don Ohlmeyer, the executive producer of NBC Sports, freeing him to join the fledgling ESPN when it called.“He knows his sports,” Mr. Ley said, “but there was a lot more to him than highlights.”In addition to Ms. Bishop, an actress who met Mr. Leonard when he interviewed her on “Midday Live,” he is survived by his daughter, Norma Sheryl Leonard, and a grandson. His marriages to Rona Rosenberg and Salome Jens ended in divorce.After his second stint at CNN, Mr. Leonard coached business executives on handling media interviews and for a time, starting in the mid-1990s, was a news anchor and talk show host for News 12, a New Jersey cable station.One of his regrets was leaving ESPN as soon as he did. “He loved sports,” Ms. Bishop said in a phone interview, “but he loved doing talk shows and interviews, so he got pulled in that direction to CNN. Through the years, though, he said he should have stayed with ESPN. He was kind of always starting something new.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Ben ShpigelATLANTA — Before playing their most critical 30 minutes of the season, the Los Angeles Rams and the New England Patriots will spend at least 30 minutes preparing for them.Halftime at the Super Bowl lasts more than twice as long as the standard 13-minute N.F.L. intermission, giving teams more time to strategize and rest but also to stay limber and energized as they rehydrate, regroup and reset for one final surge.A Super Bowl halftime unfurls like a slow drip. Players sit at their stools for a few minutes. They can breathe, and they can think, mindful of preserving energy without cooling down. Coaches convene for several minutes compiling a checklist. Assistants communicate corrections and tactical adjustments. Coordinators gather units at the ends of the room. Trainers wield foam rollers to smooth tight muscles. Head coaches emphasize points. Officials remind teams when 10 minutes remain, then five, then two.[Read about Sean McVay’s rise to lead the Rams to the Super Bowl.]A normal halftime unfolds as if caffeinated. Players retape their joints, adjust their pads and change their undershirts and shoes. They down bananas and orange slices, guzzle water and energy drinks and huddle with coaches, who, after hustling down elevators from their upstairs perches, make a small tweak or two and then, boom, off they go again. As if spectators and not participants, they debate whether they have enough time to use the restroom.“You’re out the door almost as fast as you come in,” said Matt Light, an offensive tackle who played in five Super Bowls for New England.Former Patriots players said Bill Belichick, who is set to coach in his ninth Super Bowl with New England, describes the logistics of halftime ahead of the game in as much detail as he would a game plan. The clock starts within 60 to 90 seconds of the team leaving the field. The halftime show, which begins after nine minutes, lasts about 13 and a half minutes. About seven minutes before kickoff, players begin filtering out to stretch and warm up.“There’s definitely never a time where we’re just sitting there wondering what’s going on,” Patriots receiver Chris Hogan said.Belichick views the two halves of a Super Bowl almost like a doubleheader, with a gap between games for players to recuperate mentally and physically, according to players and coaches who have been through this with him. (By now there are a lot of them.) He reminds the players to hydrate and keep their emotions in check, sharing cautionary tales.The pregame festivities ahead of the Super Bowl are far longer than usual, too, and before the unbeaten 2007 Patriots lost to the Giants in Super Bowl XLII, Belichick told players how receiver Troy Brown once expended so much energy before one of their championships that he was winded by kickoff.A member of that team, receiver Donté Stallworth, had a history of muscle injuries, and he thought it would be warm inside the stadium in Arizona. Hesitant to receive fluids intravenously — “I really hate needles,” he said — he suppressed his fear after Randy Moss, in colorful language, reminded him that he’d be playing in the Super Bowl. The infusion helped to keep his muscles loose and pliant before the game, and then at halftime he placed heat packs under his legs to warm his hamstrings.Some teams simulate the extended halftime by taking 30-minute breaks in practice. It worked for the Eagles last year. It didn’t for the Patriots seven years ago.“I don’t think you perfect it,” said Ivan Fears, New England’s running backs coach since 2002. “I think you have an idea of how to handle it because we’ve been there a few times.”In each of their two Super Bowl victories against New England, the Giants followed the same comprehensive blueprint, the notes for which Jerry Palmieri, the team’s strength and conditioning coach at the time, has kept. Upon returning to the locker room, he said, players had but one responsibility.“Just chill,” Palmieri said in a telephone interview. “We didn’t come back to them, as coaches, until 13 minutes remained.”Josh McDaniels, the Patriots’ offensive coordinator, cautioned against overthinking as coaches. Just because there’s more time, he said, doesn’t mean they need to use it all.The Rams, in their first Super Bowl under Coach Sean McVay, chose to run special-teams periods at specific junctures of practice so their offensive and defensive units could rest. John Fassel, the Rams’ special-teams coach, said he has told the players on the coverage team to warm up their hamstrings early if they wind up kicking off in the second half.Given the Rams’ penchant for trickery, it’s possible they will mimic one of the more famous gambits in Super Bowl history, when New Orleans entered halftime trailing Indianapolis, 10-6, with the Colts, guided by Peyton Manning, slated to receive the second-half kickoff. Aaron Kromer, who served on the Saints’ staff that year and now coordinates the Rams’ running game, said Thursday that the team knew it had to steal a possession to defeat Manning.And so, early in the break, Coach Sean Payton informed kicker Thomas Morstead that instead of booting the ball deep, he’d squib an onside kick. Morstead told reporters afterward that he was terrified, but New Orleans recovered, scored a touchdown on that drive and eventually won.Reggie Wayne, a receiver on that Colts team and now an analyst for NFL Network, said he had been antsy during that halftime, knowing his team had the momentum.“We were saying to each other, you know, in the locker room, if we go down and score on this drive, we’ll kill ’em, we can bury them, you know what I mean?” he said. “Then they came out with the onside kick. So maybe we needed more time.”The additional time did help the Patriots, trailing the Atlanta Falcons by 18 points two years ago, in a specific way: They could refocus. From speaking with players, Matt Chatham, a three-time Super Bowl winner with New England who is now an analyst for NESN, said he expected to hear that tables were overturned, voices were raised and significant changes made. Instead, he said, he heard the opposite. There was urgency, but there was no rush.“We just went out and played as bad as we possibly could,” said Hogan, relaying Belichick’s message. “Let’s play better and see where it puts us.”New England’s defense coalesced as Tom Brady dissected man-to-man coverage. Atlanta, exhausted, collapsed. The Patriots scored the final 31 points and won in overtime. They could all agree, it was worth the wait.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigelNaila-Jean Meyers contributed reporting.Advertisement