Trevor Matich talks about Lamar Jackson's decision to declare for the NFL draft and describes which position would best suit him at the next level. (1:27)
Lamar Jackson has begun his NFL draft prep in South Florida, quietly going about his business while keeping a lid on what his plans entail.
Over the next few months, as draft anticipation builds, he is sure to become the talk on talk radio and television, the most scrutinized player in this draft class in the way Deshaun Watson and Teddy Bridgewater drew withering scrutiny before him.
But there is a slight difference in the talking points. Critics wondered whether Watson and Bridgewater could be successful quarterbacks in the NFL. The question about Jackson goes something like this: Can he actually play quarterback in the NFL?
Although the Louisville tape and record books and trophy case say yes, those who think they know better watch Jackson run and consider that license to denigrate his skill set as a quarterback. To be sure, Jackson does not fit the prototypical NFL quarterback mold. Josh Allen does, and he finds himself in the discussion to be among the first quarterbacks taken.
Jackson finished this past season with a better completion percentage than Allen (among other statistics). Mel Kiper Jr. recently unveiled his first mock draft, and had Allen at No. 1 overall. Ranking all quarterbacks, Kiper listed Jackson No. 6.
Those rankings are highly subjective, dependent on what the evaluator believes makes a successful quarterback on the next level. In many cases, rankings and evaluations are wrong. Still, this notion that Jackson switch positions to improve his NFL draft stock is one that is still out there, and one that in all likelihood will stay out there through the combine and team evaluations.
Louisville coach Bobby Petrino knows the skepticism is out there, and it makes him angry. During a recent phone conversation, Petrino said he had no explanation for the narrative. “There’s no question he’s a quarterback in the NFL, and he’s a special, special player,” Petrino said. “I don’t know who started that or why they did it, but it’s ridiculous.”
What would Petrino tell those skeptics out there?
“They just need to come in and do their work, watch the video, see him, that’s it,” Petrino said. “That’s just talk. Do your work.”
The work would show a far from complete player, but one with a skill set that translates to the NFL with the proper coaching and guidance -- the same as any prospect hoping to become an NFL starting quarterback one day. There are no perfect quarterbacks in this draft class; Jackson is far from a finished product.
One Power 5 defensive coordinator, who watched Jackson play, said without hesitation Jackson is an NFL quarterback. He pointed to all the naysayers coming forward as one reason why the league has struggled to develop quarterbacks. “Instead of adapting to the players coming into the league, they’re trying to do what they’ve always done,” he said.
Indeed, dual-threat quarterbacks get knocked every single year in the run-up to the draft. It just so happens Jackson is different than any dual-threat quarterback since Michael Vick, because he runs like a shifty running back and throws the ball 90 yards on a dime with little effort. Vick, by the way, did play quarterback in the NFL (and he played it pretty well, too).
Although the subpar bowl performance against Mississippi State is sure to get dissected, Jackson did make significant progress in 2017 with his footwork, ball delivery and ability to read defenses. He followed up his Heisman Trophy season with another invite to New York, and ended up with 42 school and seven conference records when he declared his eligibility for the draft.
Before the bowl game, Jackson talked at length about all the ways he made improvements, although he was more reticent to discuss the future. Jackson said he first heard talk about switching positions during his Heisman trip, and it surprised him.
“It is annoying because quarterback is all I played all my life,” Jackson said. “People look at my legs and they see I can make big plays, but they don’t really see my arm, and I make big plays with my arm. I scored more touchdowns with my arm than my legs so …”
For those scoring at home, Jackson had 69 passing touchdowns and 50 rushing touchdowns in his career.
As for his own message to anybody who doubts his ability:
“Just find out when I get there.”Florida State defensive end Brandon Jenkins told coach Jimbo Fisher he will enter the NFL draft, according to NoleNation's David Hale.
Jenkins is eligible for a medical redshirt because of a Lisfranc injury he suffered in the first quarter of FSU's season opener. Instead of accepting the redshirt and returning in 2013, he decided to enter the draft.
"I think it's time," Jenkins said. "It's been great, and I love FSU. I bleed garnet and gold. It was a tough decision, but I feel like my time has been good but I will enter the draft."
How good Florida State will be next year depends heavily upon who else on the roster might follow Jenkins' lead.TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- Doak Campbell Stadium, and its 82,300 seats, might have been a more suitable setting for Florida State's pro day.
The turnout was unlike anything Florida State's communications staff has seen before. There were no more than 70 scouts and 40 media applications for Florida State pro day just a year ago. Tuesday, all 32 NFL teams were represented and 122 NFL coaches, personnel directors, general managers and scouts were clocking times and interviewing draft hopefuls. Media credentials were in such demand that after 100 requests were approved, the remaining were turned away in order to uphold building fire-safety codes. And to preserve a semblance of order and sanity.
Cam Erving and Jameis Winston had plenty of reason to smile at Florida State's pro day. Phil Sears/USA TODAY Sports
Jameis Winston, the former Seminoles quarterback and potential No. 1 overall pick, was the draw. He was throwing for NFL teams a second time after a strong showing at the combine a month prior, and Winston, who weighed in at 231 pounds, impressed those in attendance once again.
However, only one team -- and projections are it’s Tampa Bay at No. 1 -- can take Winston. For the remaining 31 teams, the lengthy car rides and chartered flights were for the remaining top-end draft prospects -- seven of whom are ranked in the top 100 of ESPN's NFL draft rankings.
Sixth-year coach Jimbo Fisher said that for all the craziness of Florida State’s pro day, it’s what you hope for as a coach -- to be the program whose pro day is circled on every NFL coaching staff’s calendar.
“You got 12 guys with the possibility to be drafted,” Fisher said. “It’s a pretty good situation.”
If Florida State has just 11 players selected, it would set the record for most draft picks in a three-year span in the modern era with 29. Miami (2002-04) and USC (2008-10) hold the record with 28.
Rashad Greene is among the Seminoles certain to be selected. When Greene arrived in 2011, Florida State had just endured its seventh consecutive season with at least four losses. Two years prior in 2009, Florida State had just one player drafted, and the Seminoles combined to have only 10 players selected from 2008-11. They had 11 drafted in 2013 alone.
“This is the vision we all had,” Greene said, pointing to all of the NFL coaches attending. “It took this group and the 2010 group to create this type of environment.”
Grades on the 5-foot-11, 177-pound receiver differ -- he could go as early as the third round -- so Greene wanted to put to rest any questions about his on-field ability at pro day. Greene said he was happiest with his route running, and he’s been able to focus solely on physical workouts as NFL teams are more than satisfied with his capabilities of mentally digesting an offense.
“Guys are very pleased and kind of shocked I have this much knowledge and feel for the game,” he said. “One reaction at the combine was they had to stop me from talking, and I don’t do a lot of talking. I was doing pretty good on the whiteboard.”
Winston is a sure bet to go in the first round, and tackle/center Cam Erving’s talent coupled with his versatility could land him among the top 32 picks, too. Defensive tackle Eddie Goldman did nothing Tuesday to jeopardize his first-round grade, and it was a handful of Goldman’s defensive teammates that improved their draft stock most, impressing scouts at the weigh in, during testing and position drills.
2015 NFL DRAFT Round 1: April 30, 8 p.m. ET (ESPN)
Rds. 2-3: May 1, 7 p.m. ET (ESPN2)
Rds. 4-7: May 2, noon ET (ESPN)
Where: Auditorium Theatre of Roosevelt University, Chicago NFL draft home page • 2015 NFL draft order
• Mel Kiper Jr.: Mock 5.0 • Todd McShay: Final mock • Todd McShay's Top 32 players • Mel Kiper Jr.'s Big Board • Top 10 prospects by position • NFL draft player rankings
Cornerback Ronald Darby positioned himself to be a first-round pick with his performance in position drills. After weighing in at 191 pounds, the fleet-footed cornerback waited until the afternoon to work out for coaches. Each time Darby ran through the cycle of defensive back drills, there was chatter among scouts about how effortless he looked. Darby’s inability to catch the football has been a criticism, but after an early drop he hauled in the remaining balls thrown his way.
Fellow cornerback P.J. Williams needed to improve upon his 4.57 time at the combine, and at the pro day he likely registered a time somewhere in the 4.4 range. Some had him clocked as low as 4.37, which is the type of speed many personnel people felt only Darby possessed among the draft-eligible defensive backs. Williams, who like Darby declared for the draft after his junior season, also posted a 41-inch vertical and broad jumped 11 feet, 3.5 inches.
“I felt like I did really good, improved on some things from the combine and came out here to compete,” Williams said. “I wasn’t going to do [the vertical and broad] when I came out, but I thought about it and said I might as well come out and compete. Then I came out and did good in the position drills.”
Like Williams, Mario Edwards Jr. is hoping to solidify himself as a late second- or early third-round pick. The former No. 1 overall high school recruit received a lot of attention early in his college career for his fluctuating weight, but the defensive end weighed 272 pounds at pro day and is in his best shape since arriving in Tallahassee.
Tra Thomas, a former first-round pick and three-time Pro Bowler at left tackle from Florida State, spent last week working with Edwards on his pass-rush ability. Edwards’ pass-rush skills were graded as “average” on his ESPN scouting report, but Thomas said Edwards is improving quickly.
“He’s going to be a huge success,” Thomas said. “He’s going to give a lot of offensive linemen fits.”INDIANAPOLIS -- There are only a few undefeated teams remaining in the NFL after two weeks.
Surprisingly, the Miami Dolphins (2-0) are one of those teams.
The Dolphins began the season as an under-the-radar team, rarely mentioned as a legit threat in the AFC. But Miami put the league on notice Sunday with a 24-20 road victory over the Indianapolis Colts, a playoff team a year ago.
The Dolphins have won two road games to start the season, equaling their total of road victories from 2012. Miami beat the Colts at their own game, outlasting the hosts in their dome for four quarters. The Dolphins forced a key interception and a turnover on downs in the final minutes to seal the win.
Ryan Tannehill was an efficient 23-for-34 on Sunday against the Colts. Thomas J. Russo/USA TODAY Sports
"From the moment we stepped on the field, there was a belief across the board that we can go out there and play with this team," Dolphins Pro Bowl defensive end Cameron Wake said. "We knew it wasn't going to be an [easy] kind of game. They're a good team and they're going to play hard.
"But coach told us before the game it might be one of those games that comes down to the offense needing to score or the defense needs to get a stop [late]. Lo and behold, it was."
Just as the Dolphins entered this season with little fanfare, the same can be said for their quarterback, Ryan Tannehill, the forgotten member of the famed 2012 draft class. Tannehill started all 16 games last year but didn't get nearly the attention enjoyed by Andrew Luck, Robert Griffin III and Russell Wilson, who as rookies led their teams to the playoffs.
But Tannehill outplayed Luck on Sunday by making big throws in key moments. Tannehill was 23-for-34 for 319 yards, one touchdown and a 107.4 passer rating. Luck was 25-for-43 for 321 yards, one touchdown, one interception and a 79.7 passer rating. It was arguably the biggest win of Tannehill's young career.
Tannehill didn't care much for the Luck comparisons after the game, but was happy about the team win for the Dolphins. More important for Miami, its confidence level continues to grow.
"It’s really satisfying," Tannehill said. "You see the team really come together and play as a team. It's a lot of fun, and it's great to be a part of it. ... I'm excited about being 2-0."
Are the Dolphins a playoff team? It's too early to say after just two weeks.
But you can tell at this point that these aren't your typical Dolphins. Those teams consistently lost on the road and got off to slow starts. Miami already cleared those hurdles in the first two games of the year.
Perhaps the most telling sign of a maturing team was Miami's even-keeled demeanor in the locker room. There was no excessive celebrating or chest-thumping after picking up a big win.
After improving to 2-0, will the Dolphins begin to earn league-wide respect?
"Time will tell. I really don't know," Dolphins linebacker Dannell Ellerbe said. "Hopefully, [pundits] at least acknowledge us. I know we still got a lot to do. A 2-0 is a great start but we still got 14 games. We can't go 2-0 and drop 14 after that. So we got to keep our heads down and keep fighting until the end to see where we end up."The NFL's leader in tackles for 2017 was not Luke Kuechly or Bobby Wagner, the pair of perennial Pro Bowlers who both can lay claim to being the NFL's best linebacker.
It was Preston Brown, the Buffalo Bills’ third-round pick in 2014 who enters unrestricted free agency in March having topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted.
Durability has never been a concern for Brown, who said by phone last week that he has only missed four games during his entire football career. But 2017 proved to be a transformative year for Brown, who partly attributes his uptick in production to a decision he made on his own last offseason to shed about 10 pounds and attempt to play faster.
Preston Brown topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted. Al Diaz/Zuma Press/Icon Sportswire
"I think it definitely helped throughout the course of the season. I never had any nagging little injury, hamstring or something like that," he said. "I think I had more success, more tackles, just being able to have more energy later in the game."
Brown, 25, played this past season in the "low 240s," down from his listed weight of 251 pounds. Losing the weight meant cutting out the candy he would stash in his hoodie during practices, as well as hiring a live-in personal chef to prepare him healthier meals.
For the first three years of his professional career, eating healthy meant ordering wraps from the Wendy's near the Bills' practice facility in Orchard Park, New York.
"It wasn’t [healthy]. It’s not good," Brown said last week. "[Now] I’m eating salads and greens, all the fruit and vegetable stuff I should have been eating instead of stopping by a drive-thru."
Brown's performance apparently was not lost on coach Sean McDermott, whose core message after being hired last year was respecting the everyday process that goes into winning games.
"In the exit meeting [after Buffalo's playoff loss to Jacksonville], coach made it sound like they wanted me back," Brown told ESPN. "He said some things that sounded like that. But you never know what’s going to happen during free agency. I would love to go back to Buffalo. That’s the No. 1 choice for me."
Brown was on the field for 1,098 of 1,108 defensive snaps this past season, a 99.1 percent playing-time rate that led Bills defenders. He also led Buffalo's defense in playing 99.4 percent of snaps in 2016, 98.2 percent of snaps in 2015 and 93.8 percent of snaps in 2014.
2018 NFL free agency Kirk Cousins. Jimmy Graham. Andrew Norwell. This class is already wild. Here's everything to know. • Barnwell's free agency & trade grades »
• Signings, analysis for all 32 teams »
• Ranking top 100 NFL free agents »
• Players who landed in perfect spots »
• Highest-paid players at every position »
• Who really got best free-agent deals? »
• Biggest remaining need for all 32 »
• Are Vikings NFC fave with Cousins? »
• Fantasy impact of key deals, moves »
Brown has played in all 64 regular-season games since he entered the NFL, starting every game except two during his first two months as a rookie. Since Brown supplanted then-Bills veteran linebacker Keith Rivers as a consistent starter in 2014, he has worn the radio-equipped helmet to relay defensive play calls to his teammates.
"That’s my main thing I love to do, just seeing guys grow around me," he said. "There’s so many players that have been on this defense that have gotten better since they’ve come through here."
The players around Brown have not been all that has changed. He began his NFL career playing outside linebacker in defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz's 4-3 scheme under then-coach Doug Marrone. Brown shifted to middle linebacker in coach Rex Ryan and defensive coordinator Dennis Thurman's hybrid scheme in 2015, then to inside linebacker when Thurman, Rex Ryan and his brother Rob Ryan ran a 3-4 system in 2016.
McDermott tapped Brown as his middle linebacker this past season in a 4-3 scheme run by defensive coordinator Leslie Frazier.
"I really liked the 4-3 scheme, back to doing that, having fun with the guys," Brown told ESPN. "I think it was a good fit for me. So hopefully they think it was a good fit as well. I don’t really know how things are gonna go. But I had fun last year and hope I can continue."
Brown said he would welcome the chance to re-sign with Buffalo before free agency opens March 14. How Brown is valued on the open market remains to be seen. While his tackles have increased each of his four seasons, Brown has not recorded an interception since 2015 and has three total in his career. He also has two career forced fumbles and one sack.
In comparison, Baltimore Ravens linebacker C.J. Mosley had two interceptions and three forced fumbles this past season, Kuechly had three interceptions and one forced fumble, and Wagner had two interceptions. All three were voted to the Pro Bowl.
Brown attributes his lack of sacks to him rarely being assigned to pass rush, but he contends he is better in coverage than some might think.
"People want to say, ‘liability,’ and all that stuff, but if I was a liability, if I’m the offensive coordinator, I would throw at me every third down and every time in the red zone. I haven’t given up a touchdown since my rookie year," he told ESPN. "You want to say I’m a liability, but if I had four more interceptions, they wouldn’t say that. So it’s just all about getting those numbers.
"The ball needs to bounce my way a little bit more than it has. I need to catch it when I have the opportunity. That’s the biggest thing. When you have interceptions, there’s a difference. All it takes is a few plays and it shows you can be a playmaker out there. ... Being smaller and stuff like that can help me to get to those plays and help me run a little faster to get there."
According to ESPN Stats & Information, Brown is the NFL's second-leading tackler since entering the NFL in 2014. His 504 total tackles on defense are second only to Wagner, with 518, and among good company: Kuechly ranks third with 498, Tampa Bay's Lavonte David ranks fourth with 481 and Mosley is fifth with 469.
"When you’re one of the top tacklers in the league, I think it says something," Brown told ESPN. "Everybody wants to say, ‘They're all the way down the field,’ and all that. But you got to tackle them eventually or they will just score."Never one to mince words, Cincinnati Bengals quarterback Carson Palmer made a strong statement this week about Bengals cornerbacks Johnathan Joseph and Leon Hall.
"I don’t know of a better tandem," Palmer said. "The two guys in Green Bay are really good, but I don’t think I would take either of those guys over our guys. Our guys are young, fast and physical."
It took a 6-2 start by the first-place Bengals for people outside of Cincinnati to realize what Palmer already sees: The Bengals have one of the top cornerback duos in the NFL.
Hall and Joseph have combined for eight interceptions, 23 passes defensed and 71 tackles through eight games. They are tested constantly by opponents but are a major reason why Cincinnati is fifth in the league in points allowed (16.9) this year.
In the era of free agency, Joseph and Hall had the rare opportunity to grow together in Cincinnati as former No. 1 draft picks. Joseph came out a year early as a junior in 2006, and Hall followed Joseph to Cincinnati in 2007.
Both players have been full-time starters at corner for three seasons and are playing the best football of their careers.
"Since day one, we’ve been locker mates, and really how we get along off the field helps with how well we communicate and get along on the field,” Hall said. “We kind of got the same personalities, we like and dislike the same things. So we just naturally became good friends on the team."
The Pittsburgh Steelers will be a huge challenge for Cincinnati’s secondary on Sunday. Pittsburgh has a deep group of receivers that includes veteran receivers Hines Ward and Santonio Holmes, tight end Heath Miller and emerging rookie Mike Wallace.
This year the Bengals have done a great job against top receivers, but they’ve struggled guarding additional receivers and tight ends. According to Matt Williamson of Scouts Inc., that will be something to monitor closely when the two teams play this weekend.
"If Hall and Joseph battle Ward and Holmes to a draw, which I think is possible, I really like Wallace’s and Miller’s chance of having a huge game," Williamson said. "As good as those two are, they can’t account for everything Pittsburgh brings to the table weapons-wise."
In the first meeting Sept. 27, Wallace shredded Cincinnati’s defense from the No. 3 receiver position with seven catches for 102 yards. The Steelers led 20-9 in the fourth quarter before Palmer led the Bengals on two touchdown drives in the final 9:14 of the game.
Opponents average an astounding 36 pass attempts per game against the Bengals. Naturally that drives up Cincinnati’s pass defense numbers as the team allows 241 yards per game. But Palmer and the Bengals’ offense are constantly putting pressure on opponents to keep up with the scoring output.
The two cornerbacks are very similar. Each is listed at 5-foot-10, and Hall is only six pounds bigger at 199 pounds. Joseph is a little more athletic, and Hall is a little more physical. Both credit facing Palmer and Cincinnati’s deep receiver corps in practice every day as one major reason for their development.
The two have been working on their hands this year, and it has paid off as both are forcing turnovers and playing at a Pro Bowl level.
Cincinnati’s coaching staff noticed that Hall and Joseph got their hands on a lot of balls but didn’t finish the play. This season Joseph already has tied his career high with four interceptions and Hall also has four picks, which is one shy of his career best.
There are several great cornerback tandems in the NFL. The AFC North blog ranks Hall and Joseph No. 3 in the league behind Al Harris and Charles Woodson of the Green Bay Packers and Darrelle Revis and Lito Sheppard of the New York Jets.
Other teams such as the Denver Broncos (Champ Bailey and Andre' Goodman), Philadelphia Eagles (Asante Samuel and Sheldon Brown) and San Diego Chargers (Quentin Jammer and Antonio Cromartie) also have very good cornerbacks.
But Palmer was willing to go to bat for his teammates, and with the way the Bengals are playing defensively, it’s hard to argue with the results.
"It feels good," Hall said of the quarterback's endorsement. "When it comes from the leader of the team, especially with a guy like Carson, it means a lot. But being the person that I am, it doesn’t mean a lot if we don’t keep playing. I know Johnathan feels the same way."OWINGS MILLS, Md. -- As an undrafted rookie, Patrick Ricard knows that making the Baltimore Ravens' 53-man roster would be an accomplishment.
Along the way, Ricard could make NFL history as well. He is pulling double duty for the Ravens these days, playing on the defensive line and in the offensive backfield as a fullback.
How unusual is this? In the past decade, only five players have totaled more than 50 snaps on offense and defense in a single season, according to ESPN Stats & Information. At 304 pounds, Ricard could also be the biggest fullback in league history.
Ricard has been practicing on defense and offense all summer, but he didn't get to play on both sides of the ball in a game until Thursday's preseason game in Miami. He lined up as a defensive lineman for eight snaps and got on the field as a fullback for five snaps.
Double Duty Here are the five players who have played at least 50 snaps on offense and defense in a single season since 2007: Year Player, team Offense Defense 2015 Nikita Whitlock, Giants 127 55 2011 Julian Edelman, Patriots 114 88 2009 Mike Furrey, Browns 299 270 2008 Dan Klecko, Eagles 250 79 2007 Lorenzo Alexander, Redskins 208 66 Source: ESPN Stats & Information
"They let me loose," Ricard said. "It just feels great going out there and slamming people."
The Ravens are looking to replace Pro Bowl fullback Kyle Juszczyk, who signed a four-year, $21 million with the San Francisco 49ers in free agency. Baltimore didn't do much to address the void, moving tailback Lorenzo Taliaferro to fullback and signing undrafted rookie Ricky Ortiz.
The outside-the-box option was Ricard, who played fullback in high school, which the Ravens didn't know at first. During offseason practices this spring, senior offensive assistant Greg Roman approached Ricard about giving fullback a try.
"I was like, all right, cool," Ricard said. "It's another opportunity to play and another chance to make the team somehow."
Ricard, a Colonial Athletic Association first-team defensive lineman out of Maine, has been one of the more pleasant surprises of training camp. He has been active and aggressive along the defensive front, and he's pushing former draft picks Carl Davis and Willie Henry for roster spots.
Ricard's versatility increases his value as well as his workload. He typically gets to practice two or three plays a day on offense, and his offensive meeting usually entails a 10-minute chat with Roman in the morning.
Play ESPN Fantasy Football More people play on ESPN than anywhere else. Join or create a league in the No. 1 Fantasy Football game! Sign up for free!
"Sizz [Terrell Suggs] calls me a traitor for going to the other side of the ball," Ricard said. "But it's all in fun. They all like it."
Roman has traditionally used more multiple-tight-end formations over the years. If that's the case and Baltimore needs a fullback for only a handful of plays, it might be smart to go with Ricard and not use a roster spot on lead blocker.
In Thursday's preseason game, Ricard provided the key block to spring Buck Allen's 16-yard run. He hit Trevor Reilly so hard that the Dolphins linebacker's helmet came off.
"When we put him in there in the spring, he looked like he was comfortable with it," Ravens coach John Harbaugh said. "He moved, he made decisions, he could see things and sort things out the way you would want to see a fullback do. He did just fine with it. He has had some experience, so we will just see how he does and keep working on it and see where it takes us."
If Ricard can pull off being a two-way player, he would become the first defensive tackle to play significant time at fullback since Dan Klecko did so with the Philadelphia Eagles in 2008.
"I am happy for him," defensive tackle Brandon Williams said. "Pat is doing a great job on defense and on offense. So he is making a statement for himself for a reason for the team to keep him around because he is that diverse."OWINGS MILLS, Md. -- The Baltimore Ravens slowed down Patrick Mahomes, Drew Brees, Matt Ryan and Philip Rivers.
But the NFL's No. 1 defense is bracing for something it cannot stop: offseason change.
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
Five starters -- outside linebacker Terrell Suggs, middle linebacker C.J. Mosley, safety Eric Weddle, cornerback Jimmy Smith and defensive end Brent Urban -- are all questionable on whether they'll return next season. That's nearly half the starting lineup for a group that allowed only three teams (the Bengals, Panthers and Chiefs) to score more than 25 points this season.
"I'm still at a loss for words, honestly," defensive tackle Michael Pierce said. "Hopefully, we can get those guys back, but everybody knows it's the NFL, how free agency works. So it's going to be a tough road."
In their first season under new defensive coordinator Don "Wink" Martindale, the Ravens held teams to a league-low 292.9 yards per game and finished No. 1 in defense for only the second time in franchise history. This defense deserved a better fate in Sunday's 23-17 loss to the Los Angeles Chargers, in which Baltimore gave up 243 total yards and one touchdown.
A key for this year's defense was continuity. The Ravens brought back every starter from the 2017 team. The only adjustment was switching from former coordinator Dean Pees.
One of the bigger decisions for new general manager Eric DeCosta, who takes over for Ozzie Newsome, is how much younger this dominant defense should get. The average age of the starters on defense is 28, and four (Suggs, Weddle, Smith and nose tackle Brandon Williams) will be 30 or older by the start of next season.
"Obviously, I want the whole [group] back," said linebacker Matthew Judon, who could emerge as one of the next core leaders on this defense. "Let’s keep everybody and draft nobody –- trade them all away for money. But that’s not how it works. I’m not playing a video game."
The three starters scheduled to become unrestricted free agents are Mosley, Suggs and Urban. The other high-profile free agent on defense is linebacker Za'Darius Smith, who led Baltimore with 8.5 sacks.
Mosley, 26, has been to the Pro Bowl in four of his five NFL seasons, but he has faced criticism about how well he holds up in coverage. Suggs, 36, has played more games than anyone else in Ravens history, but he finished with 34 tackles, his fewest in a full season since his rookie year.
After wrapping up his 15th season, Suggs wants to continue playing. He has recorded at least seven sacks in his past five seasons.
"I would love to be a Raven for life," Suggs said. "I’m healthy, and I still feel like I have some juice in the tank. We’ll have to see what happens. It’s a long time between here and March. So we’re just going to enjoy it and hope we can work it out. If not, I’ll be lining up for somebody next year."
Safety Eric Weddle is one of three Ravens defensive starters scheduled to hit free agency. Joe Sargent/Getty Images
The biggest potential salary-cap cuts on defense are Weddle and cornerbacks Jimmy Smith and Brandon Carr. They were key members of the secondary that held quarterbacks to an 80.2 passer rating (second in the NFL).
Weddle is considered the quarterback of the defense. Carr is the current ironman of all defenders. Smith is the team's No. 2 corner who would start for any defense in the NFL.
"I got a lot of ball left in me, here with the Ravens," Smith said.
Baltimore can create $21 million in cap space by parting ways with Smith ($9.5 million cap savings), Weddle ($6.5 million) and Carr ($5 million).
"Obviously, [there’s] uncertainty of the future for a lot of us, but the foundation has been set this season with the older guys and the coaches, and the young guys learning and understanding that this is what it’s about, being all-in, the belief, the trust and playing for each other," Weddle said. "That’s what makes this sport great. It’s not about the individual. It’s about the team. That’s what has made this group so special. I think no matter what happens, that will be who the Ravens are and continue to be, and that’s exciting for myself to see how we’ve grown for the last three years and where this team is going to go."ESPN Stats & Information has taken a close look at some numbers that show off Houston's needs.
The inexperience of the team’s options at receiver beyond Andre Johnson is apparent to everyone. A high draft pick obviously won’t come with NFL experience.
But he will give the team its best potential opposite Johnson.
Per Stats and Info: The Texans were one of four teams in the NFL where their most-targeted receiver had more targets than all other receivers on the roster combined. The Lions, Chiefs and Bears were the others.
Johnson’s 158 targets made up 58.1 percent of Texans’ pass attempts to wide receivers, the highest rate in the league.
The Texans need to get the ball to Johnson a great deal. But there is a point at which it’s too much, and that would seem to be beyond that point.
There will be days when a defense can slow Johnson and they need better alternatives who won’t be a big drop-off for quarterback Matt Schaub.
Here’s Schaub last season throwing to wide receivers:
To Johnson: 70.9 completion percentage, 10.1 yards per attempt, 10 plays of 30 or more yards, 31.6 attempts per interception.
To all other wide receivers: 56.5 completion percentage, 7.6 yards per attempt, five plays of 30 or more yards, 21.6 attempts per interception.
The numbers are going to be better when you are talking about one of the league's best receivers. It's not healthy for them to be that much better.
Kevin Walter is gone. DeVier Posey is coming of a torn Achilles and won't be an option in the first part of the season.
Right now, the options after Johnson are Lestar Jean and Keshawn Martin. It's not close to enough.TEMPE, Ariz. -- Around 8 a.m. on a Saturday in December 2003, Rolando Cantu hit the accelerator on his girlfriend's Volkswagen Jetta, with two teammates in tow, and started up the on-ramp toward the main thoroughfare through his hometown of Monterrey, Mexico.
He was, quite literally, beginning his journey to the NFL.
A tryout for NFL Europe was being held at the Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, the public college in Monterrey, located about six miles from Monterrey Tech, the private university where Cantu had a full scholarship to play football. After becoming the rare 18-year-old to play at the highest level of Mexican college football, Cantu started four years for Monterrey Tech on its offensive line and won two national titles.
There was nothing more for him to accomplish, football-wise, in Mexico. The NFL was next on his to-do list.
Rolando Cantu's only game in the NFL came in the final week of the 2005 season. Courtesy of Arizona Cardinals
As Cantu reached the top of the on-ramp, he noticed a semitrailer to his left. He sped up to merge in front of it but didn't see it had a double trailer until it was too late. He veered right toward the shoulder. The front right tire popped, sending the car careening to its left, under the belly of the truck. The truck, however, never slowed down. It ran over the trunk of Cantu's car, spinning the Jetta across the road and into the median.
The engine flew out of the car. The tires blew off. The axles were crushed. The car was totaled.
All that was left of the Jetta were the four doors and the frame, still intact. Cantu and his two teammates were lucky to be alive considering they weren't wearing seat belts.
What happened next, Cantu said, changed the course of his life.
Rolando Cantu Age: 35
Resides: Chandler, Arizona
Hometown: Monterrey, Mexico
College: Monterrey Tech
NFL Team: Cardinals (2004-2006)
NFL experience: Spent 2004 and the first 16 weeks of the 2005 season on the Cardinals' practice squad. Was active for Week 17 against Indianapolis, where he played only special teams.
He made two phone calls. One was to his girlfriend -- now his wife -- telling her to drive his pickup truck to the scene of the accident. The other was to Jim Tomsula, the former San Francisco 49ers head coach who at the time was an NFL Europe scout and was hosting the tryout.
Cantu told Tomsula about the accident. Tomsula told Cantu, who was widely considered the best offensive lineman in Mexico, to get to the tryout as soon as he could. But for a moment, the 22-year-old Cantu hesitated. He knew the financial ramifications of damaging city property in Mexico. Cantu considered telling his teammates to take a cab and go without him.
His girlfriend beat the police to the scene of the accident and insisted he go to the tryout. She would take the blame for the crash.
He showed up an hour late to the tryout and, with his adrenaline pumping, ran a five-second 40-yard dash at 300 pounds. Tomsula put him through a series of drills before inviting him to a central NFL Europe tryout and training camp in Tampa, Florida, the next month. Cantu impressed in Tampa and, while competing alongside 500 other international players, earned a spot on the Berlin Thunder.
He started seven games for the Thunder.
"I wasn't going to be back [to Mexico] after one year," said Cantu, who made about $1,000 a week. "I was going to make it a career."
During the lead-up to the 2004 World Bowl in June, Cantu heard rumors the Arizona Cardinals were interested in signing him. On the sideline before the game he met Cardinals owner Bill Bidwill and team president Michael Bidwill, as well as his brother Tim Bidwill, while they were on an international tour looking at stadium designs. The World Bowl was being played at a stadium originally called Arena AufSchalke, which happened to have a retractable field -- something the Cardinals' current home field, University of Phoenix Stadium, has become known for.
The day after the Thunder claimed the NFL Europe title, Cantu was a Cardinal.
"If I would've not gone to the NFL tryout that day," Cantu said, "I would not be sitting right here in front of you."
Cantu was born in Monterrey on Feb. 25, 1981, and moved to the border town of Reynosa, Mexico, for grade school. Every day until he was 10, when his family moved to McAllen, Texas, he was driven across the Mexico-United States border to attend school.
He grew up a Dallas Cowboys fan, watching their games with his father. He played the game in the backyard and in the street with neighborhood friends.
The youngest of seven children, Cantu wasn't held to the same standards as his siblings. While they worked at their father's meat market and went to school, Cantu played organized sports. He started playing football in junior high.
His plan was to follow in his siblings' footsteps and work for his father. He was content with his football career ending before high school. The idea of making money was more enticing.
But on the first day of his freshman year at McAllen High School, the school's defensive line coach pulled him out of class and asked why the 6-foot-5 Cantu didn't sign up for football. Cantu said he wanted a car.
The coach told him to get his butt to practice that afternoon.
"Pretty much that was it," Cantu said.
Cantu started taking football seriously as a sophomore. As a junior he moved to the offensive line, where he'd stay for the rest of his career. Colleges took note. Texas Tech, Texas A&M, Arkansas, Miami and Oklahoma were among the 40 schools that started recruiting him as a junior.
But NCAA football didn't appeal to him. He had his mind made up to play for his hometown college in Mexico. When Cantu began his senior season at McAllen, legendary Monterrey Tech coach Frank Gonzalez told Cantu he had a spot waiting for him. That's all Cantu needed to hear.
With age and experience, he looks back at that decision with curiosity and a hint of regret.
"Thinking about it now, analyzing that situation, I don't know why I never did apply [to play college football in the United States]," Cantu said.
At Monterrey Tech, Cantu started as an 18-year-old, a rare feat in Mexican college football. When Cantu played, Mexican collegiate football was set up as a seven-year system. Incoming players spent a year on the juvenil level followed by two in the intermedia level and then four in the Liga Mayor, which plays in ONEFA and CONADEIP, the public and private conferences, respectively, for the highest level of college football in Mexico. By the time players were in their last year of college football in Mexico, they could've been as old as 25. Cantu had friends who received double master's degrees by the time they graduated.
His team won the 1999 national title in his first season, the first of four championship games he'd play in.
Alejandro Olivas, the commissioner of CONADEIP, played as a freshman alongside Cantu, a senior, in 2003.
"He was pretty strong," Olivas remembered. "He was a lot of fun. He's the greatest. He's funny."
Cantu is remembered in Monterrey as much for his personality as his skill.
"He was big and fast and very happy," said former Monterrey Tech coach Leopoldo Treviño, who was the team's wide receivers coach during Cantu's tenure.
After losing the championship game in 2000, Cantu transferred to Texas A&M-Kingsville as an exchange student. He spent the spring and summer semesters of 2001 training with the team and preparing to play NCAA Division II football in the fall. Heading into fall camp, he had scaled the depth chart and was part of Kingsville's starting offensive line. However, instead of putting him on scholarship, the school tried to give Cantu a loan. He had a $10,000 scholarship waiting for him in Monterrey and turned down the offer. He opted to sit out the 2001 season and spent the semester with his parents in Texas. He returned to Monterrey Tech in 2002 with a confidence level that was immeasurable. He had competed against American players -- albeit in practice -- on a collegiate stage and starred.
Back at Monterrey Tech, he won another national championship in 2002 before losing again in 2003.
"I knew my level was above theirs," Cantu said. "My weight room, my running, even in the film room ... I could understand everything they were game-planning for. That wasn't a problem.
"That kind of got me more motivated to focus on the dream of becoming an NFL player from Mexico."
Two months after Cantu met the Bidwill family in June 2004, he was in Flagstaff, Arizona, for Cardinals training camp.
Because of NFL rules, as the international practice squad player, Cantu wasn't eligible to be promoted to the 53-man roster that season. Former Cardinals coach Dennis Green later told Cantu the team wanted to activate him around Week 12 but wasn't allowed.
On Jan. 3, 2005, Cantu signed his second NFL contract. That September Cantu was released during final cuts, cleared waivers and was re-signed to the Cardinals' practice squad the next day, where he'd stay until Week 17.
That's when he made history -- New Year's Day 2006.
When he woke up that morning, he couldn't eat breakfast. At 6-5, 330 pounds, Cantu wasn't one to skip a meal. But he was too nervous about playing in his first NFL game. He would become the first nonkicking Mexican-born player, who attended college in Mexico, to play in the NFL.
It was the final day of the regular season. The Cardinals were in Indianapolis to close out a 5-11 season. It was, for the most part, a meaningless Week 17 matchup against the best team in the NFL.
In Mexico, however, it was big deal. The announcement Cantu would be active came early in the week. On that Sunday, programming was interrupted to provide updates on Cantu's debut.
"It was pretty special," Cantu said.
Almost 11 years later, Cantu can remember everything about that day. Waking up. No breakfast. The first play of the game. His teammates ribbing him: "Don't blow your big shot," they joked.
He played special teams. On an empty stomach, Cantu was on the coverage team for the opening kickoff. He got a hit in on the wedge, which quickly dissipated any nerves. He also blocked for Neil Rackers' record-breaking 40th straight field goal.
The memory of seeing his former player not only make an NFL roster, but play in a game, still brings a smile to Treviño's face, who, while standing on the same field this summer that Cantu played on more than a decade ago at Estadio Tecnologico, compared it to seeing a man land on the moon.
It would be Cantu's only NFL game, and none of his family was there to see it, not even his wife's uncle who lived two hours from Indianapolis. Cantu decided against having his family travel between 20 and 25 hours to the frigid Midwest. His wife was taking care of their 3-month-old daughter, and he had family in Mexico and Texas.
Cantu's NFL debut was the culmination of a journey that began in Monterrey, Mexico, with detours through McAllen, Texas; Tampa, Florida; and Berlin. But it stopped in Arizona.
After his playing career ended, Rolando Cantu stayed with the Cardinals to work in the front office and to broadcast games on the radio in Spanish. Gregory Payan/AP Images for NFL
He signed a one-year extension for 2006, but on the fourth day of training camp, he stepped over a towel that was lying on the field and felt something in his knee. He had torn cartilage, and his meniscus needed microfracture surgery. Arizona put him on injured reserve.
Green was fired after the 2006 season and was replaced by Ken Whisenhunt, who cut Cantu in March 2007.
"People would tell me, 'Hey, you're not going to make it. Nobody's ever lived off American football from Mexico. Why is it going to be you? Finish your career. Finish your school. Get to work like everybody else,'" Cantu remembered. "I said, 'No. I'm going to make it.'
"It was just a matter of me going to NFL Europe. Once I was there, I took advantage of it."
The Cardinals offered him a job spearheading their international business ventures while working as the color commentator on the team's Spanish radio broadcasts. It allowed Cantu to stay with the team and sport that gave him a chance.
Nine years later, Cantu has called Super Bowls for Spanish-speaking networks and helped develop a Cardinals fan base throughout Mexico.
He's married to the woman who told him to go to the NFL Europe tryout, chase his dream and make it happen.
And even though he had only one game, one small taste of the NFL, it has been enough for Cantu.
"I don't think I've ever stopped to say, 'Well, I feel really down,'" Cantu said. "Football's always been a part of my life. I guess if I wouldn't have had this opportunity with the Cardinals to work in their offices, that feeling would've settled in.
"I feel blessed."SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -- Tyrann Mathieu has seen how having influential men in his life shaped who he became as a person and helped him through some of his lowest points.
Through his new foundation, Mathieu, who's in his fifth season as an Arizona Cardinals safety, wants to have that same impact on youth in Arizona and his hometown of New Orleans.
"I feel like I have two different homes," Mathieu told ESPN. "When I got drafted, obviously, there was a lot of that potentially came with me. The people of Arizona, they've been very warm and welcoming. So not only do I want to give back to New Orleans, but I want to show Arizona love."
Two men in particular have played significant roles for Mathieu.
Tyrann Mathieu, who has benefited from having teammate Patrick Peterson look over his shoulder, wants to have the same influence on youth in Phoenix and New Orleans. AP Photo/Matt York
One is Del Lee, Mathieu's defensive backs coach at St. Augustine High School in New Orleans. He became a mentor to Mathieu, someone whom Mathieu still relies on regularly, and a "father figure," Mathieu said.
"He always gave me some wisdom and some encouragement," said Mathieu, dressed in patterned suit, before the Tyrann Mathieu Foundation's first fundraiser in Arizona, a casino night at a Scottsdale resort.
The other is Patrick Peterson, Mathieu's teammate at LSU and with the Cardinals. The two have become as close as brothers since they first met on Mathieu's recruiting trip to Baton Rouge in 2009.
Mathieu called Peterson a "big brother" for "showing me how to do things on and off the football field and always believing in me."
Together, Lee and Peterson have been alongside Mathieu for the highs and lows.
"The most important thing was they never gave up on me, even when I steered the wrong way or made the poor decisions," Mathieu said. "They always believed in me. They always encouraged me. I think that's ultimately what kept me going."
Peterson was taken aback when he heard that Mathieu called him one of the two most influential men in his life. It took Peterson a few moments to gather his thoughts as the power of those words sunk in.
"Honestly, that's a remarkable honor to receive from a guy of his stature," Peterson said. "He has his own nickname. To have him saying I'm one of his positive role models, one of the most influential people in his life, that's huge.
"But for me, I just try to stay on a straight line, try to do things by the book, the right way and show the guys behind me, watching me, how to do it and how to get it done because I was definitely in the position to learn from others, as well."
Mathieu has been learning from Peterson for eight years now. When the two met during that recruiting trip in the fall of 2009, it was friendship at first sight, especially after Mathieu started talking smack.
Mathieu, who was widely under-recruited when compared to Peterson, looked at the five-star high school All-American and said: "I'm going to come to LSU and be better than you."
Peterson didn't know what to think.
"When he told me that, I'm like, 'Damn, a freakin' high school kid just called me out,'" Peterson said. "But at the same time I loved that because that's why I'm playing the game because I want somebody to be better than me. I'm paving the way for him. So I did it."
Peterson quickly took Mathieu under his wing and their relationship blossomed into what it's become today: two best friends whose NFL lockers are two players apart.
"To see what he's become now is definitely a blessing," Peterson said. "Some of the trials and tribulations that he went through, I don't know who could've or who would've made it out of that. To see where he's at right now and in a position to help, it really is just truly a blessing."
And now Mathieu wants to do the same for youth in Arizona and New Orleans as men like Lee and Peterson did for him.
Part of his foundation's mission is to have an "impact in the lives of financially disadvantaged children and youth through encouragement, opportunities and resources to achieve their dreams."
To do that, Mathieu wants to inspire them.
What you need to know in the NFL
• Statistics
• Scoreboard
• 2017 schedule, results
• Standings
"It's not necessarily about them pursuing football. It's about them being the best they can be. Hopefully, I can create opportunities and be a resource for them to really just push forward in life, so obviously trying to encourage any adversity they have. This is a great opportunity for me. I'm really excited about it."
The foundation also marks a new chapter in Mathieu's life.
Cardinals receiver Larry Fitzgerald sees Mathieu working in the weight room, the classroom and on the field. He sees him stay to himself in his personal life. But starting a foundation to enact change, especially in the lives of children, will change Mathieu's relationship with the Phoenix area, Fitzgerald said.
"When you start establishing yourself in your community, I feel like you become a staple of your team," Fitzgerald said. "You see all the kids running around on the sideline and in the stands with [Mathieu's No.] 32 jerseys on. He's got a profound impact on these young people. He's like a cultural icon here. They said Odell Beckham started the blonde hair but Ty started it many years ago.
"He's a trendsetter."TEMPE, Ariz. -- Tre and Dimitri Flowers have been competing against each other for, well, most of their lives.
And doing it in ways only cousins could -- by talking. A lot.
It started when they were kids growing up around San Antonio, seeing who could jump or throw the farthest, or who had the best hands. It hasn’t stopped to this day, and it didn’t help that they played in one of college football’s fiercest rivalries: Bedlam.
“We just always bickered,” Dimitri said. “There was always a competition between us. It could be the littlest thing but it was always a competition.”
Their ultimate competition, which will lead to the ultimate trash talking, is still two weeks away.
Dimitri, a fullback from Oklahoma, and Tre, a safety from Oklahoma State, are eligible for this year’s NFL draft. The two spent the past few months working out at the Fischer Institute in Phoenix, and although they didn’t live together, they spent about eight hours a day with each other, prepping for the combine, their pro days and the NFL.
The draft, just like everything else in their lives, will be a competition.
“I think I definitely have the leg up,” Dimitri said. “Because I have three [Big 12] rings and he has one.”
And while both cousins don’t mind taking jabs at the other or pushing buttons in ways only they know how, neither one thought he’ll have it in him to say anything right away if he gets picked first.
“Ooh, I don’t think I can do that,” Dimitri said. “See, that’s a little ... I’d have to give it some time, see how it developed. I wouldn’t go in guns firing with that.”
Said Tre: “No, not right away.”
If the two end up watching the draft together, Tre thinks it’ll unfold like this: “I’m going to get drafted. He’s going to give me my hug. He’s going to get drafted. Then I got the upper hand again.”
But will Tre say something if he goes first?
“Definitely,” he said emphatically.
It should be expected.
Together, until they weren't
The two grew up close to each other near Converse, Texas, a suburb about 15 minutes outside San Antonio. Every weekend, Dimitri, Tre and two other cousins stayed at their granny’s house. It was actually their great-grandmother; neither one met their grandparents, so she took on that role in their lives. But whenever they got to her house, it was bedlam before Bedlam.
The quartet got in trouble a lot, Dimitri said.
“Just running around the house and typically being loud and causing a ruckus, and stuff like that,” Dimitri said. “That’s what we usually got in trouble for.”
Tre Flowers makes himself felt with his hits on the field, and makes himself heard when trash talking with his cousin Dimitri. Reese Strickland/USA TODAY Sports
One thing they learned about each other at a young age was how the other handled defeat. And it couldn't have been more different. Tre cried when he lost. Dimitri got mad and stopped talking.
“Grandma wanted us to just love each other all the time,” Tre said. “We were so competitive growing up it just didn’t work out."
But now? The two are as close as brothers, Tre said. That means they still fight over which team they play with on "Madden." Soon, though, those arguments will end. They’ll be able to play each other as themselves -- unless they get drafted by the same team.
They’ve played together once. Tre was 10 and Dimitri was 9, playing up a level. Tre was the quarterback and Dimitri was his tight end. On Dimitri’s first offensive play, Tre hit him for a touchdown and the two broke out a celebration -- spike included -- that would’ve made anyone think they just won the Super Bowl.
In high school, the two went their separate ways. Tre’s Judson High dominated Dimitri’s Churchill High in all three of their matchups -- two of which knocked Dimitri out of the state playoffs.
Whenever Tre tackled Dimitri in high school, the two would talk so much trash to each other that the officials -- not knowing they were related -- got mad.
They were nearly teammates again at Oklahoma State, where Tre went to be a defensive back. But the Cowboys’ coaching staff wanted to recruit Dimitri as a defender. It was a costly decision.
When Tre heard Oklahoma State’s plan with Dimitri, “I told them they had no chance of trying to get him there. That’s not his thing.”
And once Dimitri heard, “it wasn’t happening.” He wouldn’t even visit Tre at school.
'He didn't juke me'
Instead of joining Tre in Stillwater, Dimitri went to Oklahoma State's biggest rival: Oklahoma.
“Out of every school,” Tre said. “I knew something was going to bring us back together. I didn’t think it was going to be like that. Biggest rivals. Us arguing every time. It’s just the nature of sports. It was fun.”
2018 NFL DRAFT Round 1: Thursday, 8 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 2-3: Friday, 7 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 4-7: Sat., noon, ESPN/ABC/ESPN App
Where: Arlington, Texas
NFL draft coverage » | Full order: 1-256 » • Kiper's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• McShay's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• Kiper and McShay's draft reset »
• Draft predictions for all 32 teams »
• Draft Herbies: Kirk's best of the best »
• McShay's draft buzz: What I'm hearing »
• McShay's top five needs for every team »
The two talked every couple of weeks or so while in college. During the season, their conversations were mainly through text messages and were basically updates on each other’s health, a lot of football -- especially as their annual matchup neared -- and support.
Each had his own successful career. Dimitri won three Big 12 championships and went to the College Football Playoff in two of the past three seasons. Tre won three bowl games.
Last year, a GIF made the rounds of a play that saw the two face off one-on-one. But, Tre said, there’s more than meets the eye there.
The play sees Dimitri running toward the end zone with only Tre in between him and the goal line, and it looks like Dimitri jukes Tre en route to the touchdown. Tre ended up on the ground, like a defender who just got his ankles broken by a killer crossover. However, Tre said Dimitri stepped on his foot and tore his shoes, which led to him falling and Dimitri waltzing into the end zone untouched.
“It was bad,” Tre said. “He didn’t juke me. I will say this on the record: My whole cleat tore off. I have the cleats to show everybody. My whole cleat ripped off because he’s fat and he stepped on my foot. It was a good play by him [but] ... he’ll never do it again, though.
“I don’t care what anybody says. I’ve played against elusive dudes, and he did not shake me. Not one second of my life. But I’ll own up to it. He scored. It was a great play by him. It was a momentum thing. I’ll live with it. I’ll get my chance again on a Sunday.”
As if Tre and Dimitri needed more to bicker about, that play was a topic of discussion while they trained in Phoenix.
“He knows if you really want to go out there and do one-on-ones, we can do it. Any time, any place,” Tre said. “But he has the upper hand right now.”TEMPE, Ariz. -- Steve Wilks thought his first head-coaching job would also be his last.
He was 30. It was 1999. He had been promoted to be Savannah State's head coach after two years as the school's defensive coordinator.
He was content. He already had met his future wife, Marcia. And back then, the NFL seemed like a long shot.
He felt like Savannah State was home.
"My initial thought, believe it or not, was that I was going to be at Savannah State forever," Wilks said. "I had a vision of Eddie Robinson."
The idea of trying to recreate the type of legacy Robinson developed after 57 years at Grambling State was intriguing to Wilks but, ultimately, his aspirations tugged at him a bit too hard.
"I enjoyed my time there but didn't see a lot of growth," Wilks said.
A phone call from coach Denver Johnson in early 2000 recruiting him to be Illinois State's defensive backs coach set off a chain of moves that led Wilks zigzagging across the country to eight jobs in eight years across 6,479 miles.
The moves seemed to define his career. Until this year, when he became a first-time NFL head coach with the Arizona Cardinals. Wilks gets his first chance at the national spotlight against the Denver Broncos on Thursday night (8:20 p.m. ET, Fox).
Eight Jobs in Eight Years A look at Cardinals coach Steve Wilks' eight stops over eight years from 1999 to 2006: Year Team Position 1999 Savannah State Head coach 2000 Illinois State Defensive backs 2001 Appalachian State Defensive backs 2002 East Tennessee State Co-defensive coordinator 2003 Bowling Green Defensive backs 2004 Notre Dame Defensive backs 2005 Washington Defensive backs 2006-08 Chicago Bears Defensive backs
From Savannah State in 1999, Wilks began climbing the coaching hierarchy: Illinois State in 2000, Appalachian State in 2001, East Tennessee State in 2002, Bowling Green in 2003, Notre Dame in 2004, Washington in 2005 and then to the Chicago Bears in 2006. Finally, then, in Chicago, Wilks' first foray into the NFL, he could take a breath. He and his family were done moving. He could unpack all the boxes -- even the ones he left in the garage.
"Every move was a step up," Wilks said. "It was a great move and a good opportunity to learn and grow, and it allowed me to be where I am today."
Each of Wilks' jobs during that stretch came to him because of someone else.
"I've got kind of a theory that there's this 'it' factor out there, and whatever 'it' is, I just really sensed that Steven had it," said Johnson of bringing him to Illinois State. "He had that aura about him. He was very articulate, highly intelligent -- you can just tell he was a cut above guys intelligence-wise. A very personable guy. I just thought he covered all the bases quite well and did a great job for me in the short time that I had him."
From Illinois State, Wilks went back to his alma mater, Appalachian State, after a conversation with former Appalachian State defensive coordinator John Wiley, who coached Wilks in college, according to former Appalachian State coach Jerry Moore.
That one was an opportunity for Wilks to go home.
He still remembers that move like it just happened. He and Marcia packed up a moving truck and headed southeast for about a 760-mile drive from Normal, Illinois, to Boone, North Carolina. Steve drove the truck while Marcia followed in their Mitsubishi Galant with their infant daughter and dog. By the time they got to the mountains of Tennessee, it was pouring rain. Wilks couldn't see more than 10 feet in front of him.
"It's like, 'Wow,'" Wilks recalled. "Crazy experience. It was part of it.
"I tell people, they see where you are now but don't really understand the process."
Wilks' next move was far shorter.
Steve Wilks spent the 2000 season as defensive backs coach at Illinois State. Illinois State University
He had met East Tennessee State coach Paul Hamilton through the Southern Conference. The two reconnected when Hamilton had an opening on his staff for a co-defensive coordinator for the 2002 season, and since ETSU and Appalachian State were only about an hour apart, Wilks didn't have to go a long way for his interview. Immediately, Hamilton, who had heard good things about Wilks through the Southern Conference's grapevine, wanted to make sure he hired Wilks. He did, and Wilks had an opportunity to be a coordinator and put a title on his résumé.
But Hamilton knew he wouldn't be able to keep Wilks for long.
"There was no question where he was headed ... the opportunities that he would have," said Hamilton, now Georgia Tech's associate director of player personnel.
That offseason Wilks found out how the coaches' network worked -- even when he wasn't looking for a job. It went something like this: A friend or colleague of Wilks' would see him around the annual coaches convention and tell him he gave Wilks' number to a head coach who was looking to fill his staff. Then that coach would call Wilks, tell him where he got his name and number, and ask if he'd be interested in the open job. Then the two would meet in the hotel lobby to talk.
The first time that happened to Wilks was at the convention in New Orleans in early 2003. Bowling Green coach Gregg Brandon reached out about being his defensive backs coach in 2003. They met in the hotel lobby. Wilks agreed to go to campus. And he got the job.
It's the exact same way Wilks was hired by Tyrone Willingham the next season at Notre Dame. One of Wilks' friends, Trent Walters, who was Willingham's secondary coach at Notre Dame, passed Wilks' name along to Willingham when he left for the NFL.
Steve Wilks spent 2004 at Notre Dame, where he and his wife purchased a house. But they would sell it just a few months later. University of Notre Dame
Wilks' success rate at the conventions became a running joke with his wife.
"She would just tell me every time I would leave [for a convention], 'Just call me and let me know where we're moving to,'" Wilks said.
After a year at Notre Dame in 2004, Wilks was looking for another job when Willingham and the staff were fired. Fortunately for Wilks, he was one of three coaches Willingham took with him to the University of Washington.
By then, Marcia had become a master at moving.
The routine was usually the same: Steve would get hired and have to head to his new job immediately to start recruiting. Marcia would stay back to finish working, when she still worked, and then for the kids to finish school. Then she'd pack the house and move the family herself.
"That old saying, 'Your better half,' that's just really an understatement for me," he said. "Because it really is."
Wilks was around for one move -- the Notre Dame move. And it didn't go so well.
"Being the coach that I am, trying to direct things and get stuff put up and this and that, and she's just like, 'You're killing my routine now,'" Steve remembered. "I was putting up things the wrong way. I was just like, 'OK, I'll let you do what you need to do.'"
The moves started happening so often that Wilks recalls some boxes wouldn't get opened year after year and just get moved from garage to garage.
Steve Wilks followed Tyrone Willingham from Notre Dame to Washington, where Wilks was the Huskies' secondary coach in 2005. University of Washington
Moving every year also meant annual searches for a new home. Until Wilks was hired at Notre Dame, the family rented in their new cities. They bought a house when he was hired by Notre Dame and built one when he went to Washington, which they had to put on the market after a few months because Wilks had one more move to make before settling in one place for a while.
Starting at Notre Dame and then at Washington, Willingham started grooming Wilks to be a major Division I head coach. But Wilks still wanted to challenge himself, and being an FBS coach wasn't enough.
So instead of waiting for someone else to call him, he took the initiative.
He found out the Tampa Bay Buccaneers had a defensive backs job open heading into the 2005 season. And he knew that former Washington and Notre Dame defensive coordinator Kent Baer knew former Bucs defensive coordinator Monte Kiffin. So, Wilks asked Baer to call Kiffin on his behalf. It led to an interview, though Wilks didn't get the job.
However, Kiffin gave Wilks' name to Lovie Smith, then the Chicago Bears coach.
And Wilks got that job.
And his family moved again.
This time Wilks stayed put for a while, spending three years with the Bears before moving to San Diego to spend three more seasons with the Chargers, where he was reunited with Ron Rivera, the former Bears defensive coordinator. Then it was on to his hometown of Charlotte, where Wilks again reunited with Rivera, but he spent six seasons with the Panthers before the Cardinals made him a head coach.
After moving so much, that second year in Chicago took some getting used to for Wilks. Marcia wasn't packing up the house the spring after the season. He wasn't learning a new way to work. He was somewhere for two -- and eventually three -- years.
"To be honest, that three years felt like an eternity based on the things I had been doing in previous years," Wilks said. "I got a great foundation there and it really helped shape who I am today."FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -- A couple of weeks ago, folks wanted to give Steve Sarkisian a collective pat on the back after the Atlanta Falcons went 11-of-14 on third down and put up 34 points in a home win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
Then, after last week's 9-point outing and 1-for-10 third-down performance in a loss to the Minnesota Vikings, some fans wanted to give the Falcons' offensive coordinator a swift kick in the butt.
Such are the ups and downs of a playcaller, something Sarkisian has grown accustomed to during his first year with the Falcons and first year as an NFL coordinator.
Week 14 TNF: Saints at Falcons New Orleans (9-3) is at Atlanta (7-5). (8:25 p.m. ET, NBC): • Ups, downs of Sarkisian's first year
• Ingram-Kamara duo running for history
• Quinn writes excuse for fans to be late
• Best RB duo? Freeman taking pass
• DPOY case for Cameron Jordan
• Insiders predict Falcons-Saints
• How to bet New Orleans-Atlanta
"We're constantly self-evaluating, or at least I am, to try to better ourselves," Sarkisian said. "There's never a moment of relaxation, of feeling, 'We're good,' so everything is just going to be OK and remain status quo. I think we constantly have to keep working at it, and that doesn't change. That's the process that I go through on a weekly basis.
"I don't really try to ride the highs and lows of the season. I try to be consistent. I think that's what's really important."
The Falcons are still trying to find offensive consistency heading into Thursday night's crucial showdown with their NFC South rival, the division-leading New Orleans Saints (9-3). At 7-5, the Falcons don't have much room for error with just four games left as they sit one spot behind Carolina (8-4) for the NFC's final wild-card berth.
To beat the high-scoring Saints (29.4 points per game) and win down the stretch, the Falcons know they have to click on offense with reigning MVP Matt Ryan, receiver Julio Jones and the potent running back tandem of Devonta Freeman and Tevin Coleman leading the way. But despite having all those weapons, along with threats such as Mohamed Sanu, Taylor Gabriel and Austin Hooper, the Falcons find themselves scoring a pedestrian 22.8 points per game after leading the league at 33.8 points per contest a year ago. They've averaged 29.6 points per game in their seven wins and 13.4 points per game in the five losses. And they've converted 21 of 38 red zone opportunities for 55.3 percent, which isn't bad but could be better based on their 61.9 percent conversion rate in 2016.
The coaches and players refuse to reflect on last year in comparing the statistics, but the reality is the offense hasn't been as high-powered as it was last season.
Some would say it has to do with Kyle Shanahan, now the San Francisco 49ers' head coach, no longer calling the plays, despite the criticism of Shanahan's Super Bowl showing. Some would say preseason injuries to Jones (toe surgery) and Gabriel (lower leg) kept them from being in concert with Ryan to start this season. Some would say the 19 drops by Ryan's targets have been the most significant factor. Some would say the offensive line hasn't done its part, although the Falcons have made the most out of what has been tabbed an "average" group by experts who played the position. Some would say the run-pass balance was missing during a three-game slide. And some would say Ryan's throws have been off at times, although he went through a three-game stretch -- and winning streak -- where he completed 70 percent of his passes or better.
With Steve Sarkisian calling plays, the Falcons have averaged 29.6 points per game in their seven wins and 13.4 in their five losses. Brett Davis/USA TODAY Sports
But most of the finger-pointing typically is directed, if not at the head coach, at the playcaller, as Sarkisian freely acknowledged. Of course, not every play call has worked. He probably has visions of that jet sweep to Gabriel on fourth-and-goal in a loss at New England still dancing in his head. Things got much better in short-yardage situations when Sarkisian installed the heavy package featuring talented defensive tackle Dontari Poe.
From Week 1 until now, Sarkisian firmly believes, he has evolved as a coordinator. He had to step out of his comfort zone of working on the sideline, which he was accustomed to as a college head coach, to move up to the coaching booth, as suggested by head coach Dan Quinn. Sarkisian had to develop and enhance his communication with Ryan, first and foremost. Then he had to determine the best way to utilize specific players, whether it meant keeping a receiver such as Jones in or out of the game after running a post route or subbing Coleman for Freeman after Freeman broke a long run.
"I think all of those areas, naturally, I've grown to understand moreso as the season's gone on," Sarkisian said.
"As always, I want to score every time we get the ball to put us in the best position to win games. ... We've been an explosive offense, but I think the biggest thing here for us closing this season out with some big games ahead of us, starting Thursday night, is our ability to score touchdowns. I think that's going to be a real difference in how this season closes out offensively for us."
The players have stood firmly behind Sarkisian from the beginning. While the details behind the relationship between Ryan and Shanahan might never go public, there seems to be genuine trust between Ryan and Sarkisian, as Sarkisian came in and brought some new wrinkles to the outside-zone scheme Shanahan had implemented.
"I think Sark has been awesome," Ryan said. "His consistency throughout the year has been really, really good. His personality type, you know what you're getting from him every day. And I think, from a player, that's huge. You respect that so much of your coaches when they're consistent day in and day out; they're very clear about what they expect from you.
"I think he's done a great job of game-planning week in and week out. I think we've seen that now. He's put us in good positions to make plays. And that's really all you can ask for from a coordinator and a coach."
"His consistency throughout the year has been really, really good. His personality type, you know what you're getting from him every day. And I think, from a player, that's huge." Matt Ryan on Steve Sarkisian
Jones, who has been targeted six times or fewer in four games, with the Falcons going 2-2 in those games, says he never lost faith in Sarkisian. "He's been doing a good job for us; I can't complain," Jones said. "He draws shots up. We've just been put in different situations weekly. And we just have to get better together.
"It's never like, 'Well, it's the offensive coordinator, it's the quarterback, it's the running back.' Everything is all of us. ... And Sark, he's a players' coach. He's not stuck in his ways. He listens. If you come to him and say, 'We can do this and beat them here,' he'll draw it up. And it's always good when an offensive coordinator is like that because they believe in their guys. They know you're going to bring it to life."
The Falcons were humbled when they faced a couple of top-five, physical defenses in Minnesota and Carolina, dropping both games and failing to reach 20 points in both. Sarkisian talked about what he learned from those matchups, with the Panthers coming to Atlanta for the regular-season finale and even the rival Saints -- whom the Falcons play twice in the next three weeks -- improved defensively and particularly tough up front.
"I like to use the analogy of a batter in Major League Baseball," Sarkisian said. "Those guys go to the plate and they might see five, six, eight pitches in an at-bat, and maybe one of those is a really good pitch to hit that they can really drive the ball.
"When you're playing really good defenses in this league, we have to capitalize on those pitches that we can hit -- those really good, clean opportunities to create explosive plays, to score touchdowns -- because those sound defenses that are physical up front, that cover well, that don't blow coverages, when you get the looks you want, you really need to take advantage of it."
The Falcons need to hit some home runs if they hope to finish the season with a bang.Nick Saban shares his thoughts on how former Alabama players Minkah Fitzpatrick and Calvin Ridley will fare in the NFL. (1:45)
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -- Calvin Ridley's movements look flawless, from extending both arms to snatch a pass over the middle to sticking his foot in the ground to change direction in front of a defender.
There's little wasted motion, something Ridley attributes to natural ability. At the same time, the Atlanta Falcons' first-round draft pick would be the first to say he's far from a finished product.
"I just want to be more fluid, more efficient, just more consistent in the routes and getting open more," Ridley said.
Flip on film from Ridley's days at Alabama, and you'll see a receiver often running wide open down the field, a sign he has already won the battle at the line of scrimmage. Although Ridley possesses 4.43 speed, his precise route-running is what separated him from the rest. Executives and coaches alike have marveled at how his route-running skills should translate to immediate NFL success.
With crisp moves and attention to detail, receiver Calvin Ridley has the potential to make an immediate impact for the Falcons. Jamie Gilliam/Icon Sportswire
Attention to detail in regard to route running is something Ridley took more seriously beginning in the 10th grade at Monarch High School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He started to dissect film of NFL receivers such as current teammate Julio Jones, Antonio Brown, Emmanuel Sanders and Amari Cooper. Jones and Cooper were also Alabama stars, and Ridley has learned from both over the years.
"They just all separated very well," Ridley said. "They were wide open all the time. It's that hard 'stick' and creating the separation. Julio, he does [a] lot of snapping the route off."
Ridley's evolution as a route runner continued when he arrived at Alabama in 2015. His position coach was Billy Napier, now the head coach of the Louisiana-Lafayette Ragin' Cajuns. Ridley also credited current Alabama offensive coordinator Mike Locksley, who worked with the receivers last season, for drilling him about shuffling and sticking to get open.
"When I first got there, I really was just basic, raw," Ridley said of his freshman year with the Crimson Tide. "I didn't know all the sticks, all the movement. Coach Napier taught me how do releases and how to shuffle and stick and get people going."
Napier didn't want to take too much credit after watching Ridley terrorize opposing defenses to the tune of 1,045 receiving yards, breaking Cooper's freshman record.
"First of all, I think it's important to realize that Calvin is a product of a ton of hard work," Napier said. "This guy is a tireless worker. And, in my opinion, a good route runner has to have great attention to detail and have to be willing to invest the time. Certainly, Calvin was one of those types of guys.
"He's not the biggest guy. He's probably 6-foot, 185 pounds. And when he got [to Alabama], he probably weighed like 165. For him, really doing a great job at the line of scrimmage versus press was important."
Napier notices how Ridley to this day uses some of the releases he taught him back in '15. It never surprises Napier to see Ridley win at the line against physical corners.
"I would equate it to basketball: I really think it's similar to taking the ball down the court, and you're in a one-on-one situation trying to cross the guy over," Napier said. "So you want to move him opposite of where you're going and try to take the ball to the hole.
"When you've got a corner who walks up on you and is playing you in press technique, it's very similar. Calvin did a great job with his feet. And certainly once you move the DB with your feet, then it becomes about your hands and taking advantage, if you get the DB out of position."
In three years at Alabama, Ridley caught 224 of 337 targets for 2,781 yards with 19 touchdowns and 1,433 yards after the catch. He had 10 touchdowns on 43 red zone targets and another six touchdowns on balls thrown 30-plus yards down the field.
Ridley, who uses simple cone drills to perfect his footwork, says he "always" studies defensive backs to take note of their tendencies. He credits former NFL receiver Keary Colbert, a former offensive analyst for the Crimson Tide, for sitting down with him five times a week to analyze opposing defensive backs.
Colbert praised Ridley for putting in the time to enhance his game.
"He has an ability to make every route look like a go route with his speed, knee drive and arm action," Colbert said of Ridley. "He has a great ability to stop on a dime and transition in and out of his breaks. He also has great body control and suddenness. He has a knack for lulling DBs to sleep and then running right by them. Another thing that sets him apart is that he loves to practice. Practice is not a chore for Calvin. He loves perfecting his craft."
Ridley talked about what he looks for at the line.
"When I get there, I'm looking at the leverage of the corner so I can see what I've got to do," he said. "After that, I'm working off the movement of him. My feet, my body, I'm trying to make moves to get me some space."
The top candidates for Offensive Rookie of the Year!https://t.co/1NAIMZpWr4 pic.twitter.com/6zBU1MPPzp — Pro Football Focus (@PFF) May 14, 2018
Ridley mentioned former LSU cornerback Tre'Davious White, now with the Buffalo Bills, as the best defensive back he faced in college because "he really covered good and didn't put his hands on me and was patient." Now in the NFL, Ridley certainly will have opportunities to win one-on-one matchups with the attention Jones routinely attracts and the other weapons at quarterback Matt Ryan's disposal, such as Mohamed Sanu, Austin Hooper and the running back combo of Devonta Freeman and Tevin Coleman.
"I think I can sell people: get them going one way and stick, put foot in the ground and be able to go another way," Ridley said. "I think I change direction pretty well to get them going and thinking I'm going another way. I like press coverage, though. You just have to be quicker than the DB and just find ways to get open."
If it were totally up to him, Ridley would go out there and run deep post routes all day because "I just make a good move, get open and go deep really well." His ability to get in and out of breaks makes "under" routes among his favorites, too.
The one route he admitted having to adjust to is the out route.
"It's full-speed, stick, speed out, and a lot of people can't do that," Ridley said. "It takes a lot of reps and practice to run it."
Ridley should get plenty of reps as the newest member of what is expected to be a high-powered Falcons offense. Atlanta plans to use Ridley both outside opposite Jones and in the slot while also possibly using him as a return man on special teams.
Judging by the early buzz surrounding him, Ridley is on the right route to an impactful rookie campaign.Nick Saban shares his thoughts on how former Alabama players Minkah Fitzpatrick and Calvin Ridley will fare in the NFL. (1:45)
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -- Calvin Ridley's movements look flawless, from extending both arms to snatch a pass over the middle to sticking his foot in the ground to change direction in front of a defender.
There's little wasted motion, something Ridley attributes to natural ability. At the same time, the Atlanta Falcons' first-round draft pick would be the first to say he's far from a finished product.
"I just want to be more fluid, more efficient, just more consistent in the routes and getting open more," Ridley said.
Flip on film from Ridley's days at Alabama, and you'll see a receiver often running wide open down the field, a sign he has already won the battle at the line of scrimmage. Although Ridley possesses 4.43 speed, his precise route-running is what separated him from the rest. Executives and coaches alike have marveled at how his route-running skills should translate to immediate NFL success.
With crisp moves and attention to detail, receiver Calvin Ridley has the potential to make an immediate impact for the Falcons. Jamie Gilliam/Icon Sportswire
Attention to detail in regard to route running is something Ridley took more seriously beginning in the 10th grade at Monarch High School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He started to dissect film of NFL receivers such as current teammate Julio Jones, Antonio Brown, Emmanuel Sanders and Amari Cooper. Jones and Cooper were also Alabama stars, and Ridley has learned from both over the years.
"They just all separated very well," Ridley said. "They were wide open all the time. It's that hard 'stick' and creating the separation. Julio, he does [a] lot of snapping the route off."
Ridley's evolution as a route runner continued when he arrived at Alabama in 2015. His position coach was Billy Napier, now the head coach of the Louisiana-Lafayette Ragin' Cajuns. Ridley also credited current Alabama offensive coordinator Mike Locksley, who worked with the receivers last season, for drilling him about shuffling and sticking to get open.
"When I first got there, I really was just basic, raw," Ridley said of his freshman year with the Crimson Tide. "I didn't know all the sticks, all the movement. Coach Napier taught me how do releases and how to shuffle and stick and get people going."
Napier didn't want to take too much credit after watching Ridley terrorize opposing defenses to the tune of 1,045 receiving yards, breaking Cooper's freshman record.
"First of all, I think it's important to realize that Calvin is a product of a ton of hard work," Napier said. "This guy is a tireless worker. And, in my opinion, a good route runner has to have great attention to detail and have to be willing to invest the time. Certainly, Calvin was one of those types of guys.
"He's not the biggest guy. He's probably 6-foot, 185 pounds. And when he got [to Alabama], he probably weighed like 165. For him, really doing a great job at the line of scrimmage versus press was important."
Napier notices how Ridley to this day uses some of the releases he taught him back in '15. It never surprises Napier to see Ridley win at the line against physical corners.
"I would equate it to basketball: I really think it's similar to taking the ball down the court, and you're in a one-on-one situation trying to cross the guy over," Napier said. "So you want to move him opposite of where you're going and try to take the ball to the hole.
"When you've got a corner who walks up on you and is playing you in press technique, it's very similar. Calvin did a great job with his feet. And certainly once you move the DB with your feet, then it becomes about your hands and taking advantage, if you get the DB out of position."
In three years at Alabama, Ridley caught 224 of 337 targets for 2,781 yards with 19 touchdowns and 1,433 yards after the catch. He had 10 touchdowns on 43 red zone targets and another six touchdowns on balls thrown 30-plus yards down the field.
Ridley, who uses simple cone drills to perfect his footwork, says he "always" studies defensive backs to take note of their tendencies. He credits former NFL receiver Keary Colbert, a former offensive analyst for the Crimson Tide, for sitting down with him five times a week to analyze opposing defensive backs.
Colbert praised Ridley for putting in the time to enhance his game.
"He has an ability to make every route look like a go route with his speed, knee drive and arm action," Colbert said of Ridley. "He has a great ability to stop on a dime and transition in and out of his breaks. He also has great body control and suddenness. He has a knack for lulling DBs to sleep and then running right by them. Another thing that sets him apart is that he loves to practice. Practice is not a chore for Calvin. He loves perfecting his craft."
Ridley talked about what he looks for at the line.
"When I get there, I'm looking at the leverage of the corner so I can see what I've got to do," he said. "After that, I'm working off the movement of him. My feet, my body, I'm trying to make moves to get me some space."
The top candidates for Offensive Rookie of the Year!https://t.co/1NAIMZpWr4 pic.twitter.com/6zBU1MPPzp — Pro Football Focus (@PFF) May 14, 2018
Ridley mentioned former LSU cornerback Tre'Davious White, now with the Buffalo Bills, as the best defensive back he faced in college because "he really covered good and didn't put his hands on me and was patient." Now in the NFL, Ridley certainly will have opportunities to win one-on-one matchups with the attention Jones routinely attracts and the other weapons at quarterback Matt Ryan's disposal, such as Mohamed Sanu, Austin Hooper and the running back combo of Devonta Freeman and Tevin Coleman.
"I think I can sell people: get them going one way and stick, put foot in the ground and be able to go another way," Ridley said. "I think I change direction pretty well to get them going and thinking I'm going another way. I like press coverage, though. You just have to be quicker than the DB and just find ways to get open."
If it were totally up to him, Ridley would go out there and run deep post routes all day because "I just make a good move, get open and go deep really well." His ability to get in and out of breaks makes "under" routes among his favorites, too.
The one route he admitted having to adjust to is the out route.
"It's full-speed, stick, speed out, and a lot of people can't do that," Ridley said. "It takes a lot of reps and practice to run it."
Ridley should get plenty of reps as the newest member of what is expected to be a high-powered Falcons offense. Atlanta plans to use Ridley both outside opposite Jones and in the slot while also possibly using him as a return man on special teams.
Judging by the early buzz surrounding him, Ridley is on the right route to an impactful rookie campaign.Nick Saban shares his thoughts on how former Alabama players Minkah Fitzpatrick and Calvin Ridley will fare in the NFL. (1:45)
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -- Calvin Ridley's movements look flawless, from extending both arms to snatch a pass over the middle to sticking his foot in the ground to change direction in front of a defender.
There's little wasted motion, something Ridley attributes to natural ability. At the same time, the Atlanta Falcons' first-round draft pick would be the first to say he's far from a finished product.
"I just want to be more fluid, more efficient, just more consistent in the routes and getting open more," Ridley said.
Flip on film from Ridley's days at Alabama, and you'll see a receiver often running wide open down the field, a sign he has already won the battle at the line of scrimmage. Although Ridley possesses 4.43 speed, his precise route-running is what separated him from the rest. Executives and coaches alike have marveled at how his route-running skills should translate to immediate NFL success.
With crisp moves and attention to detail, receiver Calvin Ridley has the potential to make an immediate impact for the Falcons. Jamie Gilliam/Icon Sportswire
Attention to detail in regard to route running is something Ridley took more seriously beginning in the 10th grade at Monarch High School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He started to dissect film of NFL receivers such as current teammate Julio Jones, Antonio Brown, Emmanuel Sanders and Amari Cooper. Jones and Cooper were also Alabama stars, and Ridley has learned from both over the years.
"They just all separated very well," Ridley said. "They were wide open all the time. It's that hard 'stick' and creating the separation. Julio, he does [a] lot of snapping the route off."
Ridley's evolution as a route runner continued when he arrived at Alabama in 2015. His position coach was Billy Napier, now the head coach of the Louisiana-Lafayette Ragin' Cajuns. Ridley also credited current Alabama offensive coordinator Mike Locksley, who worked with the receivers last season, for drilling him about shuffling and sticking to get open.
"When I first got there, I really was just basic, raw," Ridley said of his freshman year with the Crimson Tide. "I didn't know all the sticks, all the movement. Coach Napier taught me how do releases and how to shuffle and stick and get people going."
Napier didn't want to take too much credit after watching Ridley terrorize opposing defenses to the tune of 1,045 receiving yards, breaking Cooper's freshman record.
"First of all, I think it's important to realize that Calvin is a product of a ton of hard work," Napier said. "This guy is a tireless worker. And, in my opinion, a good route runner has to have great attention to detail and have to be willing to invest the time. Certainly, Calvin was one of those types of guys.
"He's not the biggest guy. He's probably 6-foot, 185 pounds. And when he got [to Alabama], he probably weighed like 165. For him, really doing a great job at the line of scrimmage versus press was important."
Napier notices how Ridley to this day uses some of the releases he taught him back in '15. It never surprises Napier to see Ridley win at the line against physical corners.
"I would equate it to basketball: I really think it's similar to taking the ball down the court, and you're in a one-on-one situation trying to cross the guy over," Napier said. "So you want to move him opposite of where you're going and try to take the ball to the hole.
"When you've got a corner who walks up on you and is playing you in press technique, it's very similar. Calvin did a great job with his feet. And certainly once you move the DB with your feet, then it becomes about your hands and taking advantage, if you get the DB out of position."
In three years at Alabama, Ridley caught 224 of 337 targets for 2,781 yards with 19 touchdowns and 1,433 yards after the catch. He had 10 touchdowns on 43 red zone targets and another six touchdowns on balls thrown 30-plus yards down the field.
Ridley, who uses simple cone drills to perfect his footwork, says he "always" studies defensive backs to take note of their tendencies. He credits former NFL receiver Keary Colbert, a former offensive analyst for the Crimson Tide, for sitting down with him five times a week to analyze opposing defensive backs.
Colbert praised Ridley for putting in the time to enhance his game.
"He has an ability to make every route look like a go route with his speed, knee drive and arm action," Colbert said of Ridley. "He has a great ability to stop on a dime and transition in and out of his breaks. He also has great body control and suddenness. He has a knack for lulling DBs to sleep and then running right by them. Another thing that sets him apart is that he loves to practice. Practice is not a chore for Calvin. He loves perfecting his craft."
Ridley talked about what he looks for at the line.
"When I get there, I'm looking at the leverage of the corner so I can see what I've got to do," he said. "After that, I'm working off the movement of him. My feet, my body, I'm trying to make moves to get me some space."
The top candidates for Offensive Rookie of the Year!https://t.co/1NAIMZpWr4 pic.twitter.com/6zBU1MPPzp — Pro Football Focus (@PFF) May 14, 2018
Ridley mentioned former LSU cornerback Tre'Davious White, now with the Buffalo Bills, as the best defensive back he faced in college because "he really covered good and didn't put his hands on me and was patient." Now in the NFL, Ridley certainly will have opportunities to win one-on-one matchups with the attention Jones routinely attracts and the other weapons at quarterback Matt Ryan's disposal, such as Mohamed Sanu, Austin Hooper and the running back combo of Devonta Freeman and Tevin Coleman.
"I think I can sell people: get them going one way and stick, put foot in the ground and be able to go another way," Ridley said. "I think I change direction pretty well to get them going and thinking I'm going another way. I like press coverage, though. You just have to be quicker than the DB and just find ways to get open."
If it were totally up to him, Ridley would go out there and run deep post routes all day because "I just make a good move, get open and go deep really well." His ability to get in and out of breaks makes "under" routes among his favorites, too.
The one route he admitted having to adjust to is the out route.
"It's full-speed, stick, speed out, and a lot of people can't do that," Ridley said. "It takes a lot of reps and practice to run it."
Ridley should get plenty of reps as the newest member of what is expected to be a high-powered Falcons offense. Atlanta plans to use Ridley both outside opposite Jones and in the slot while also possibly using him as a return man on special teams.
Judging by the early buzz surrounding him, Ridley is on the right route to an impactful rookie campaign.Ray Lewis explains what being inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame means to him and how it fulfills a dream of his. (2:15)
The Baltimore Ravens began their franchise with what now can be considered the best round in NFL draft history.
After relocating from Cleveland in 1996, the Ravens used their first two selections (both first-round picks) on offensive tackle Jonathan Ogden and linebacker Ray Lewis. This past Saturday, Lewis joined Ogden in getting voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
This marks the first time that two Hall of Fame players were drafted in the same round by the same team and reached Canton in their first year of eligibility, according to ESPN Stats & Information research.
"As the first two draft picks in Ravens history, Ray and I came in with the same mentality that we were determined to create something special," Ogden said. "From the beginning, the bond we shared was incredibly special. That connection is even stronger now, as everything has come full circle, and we’re able to stand side by side in the Hall of Fame."
Hall of Fame Drafts Here are the six instances in which multiple Hall of Fame players were drafted by the same team in the same year (since 1967): Player Position Round Inducted to HOF 1968 Raiders Ken Stabler QB 2nd 2016 Art Shell OT 3rd 1989 1970 Steelers Terry Bradshaw QB 1st 1989 Mel Blount CB 3rd 1989 1974 Steelers Lynn Swann WR 1st 2001 Jack Lambert LB 2nd 1990 John Stallworth WR 4th 2002 Mike Webster C 5th 1997 1985 Buffalo Bills Bruce Smith DE 1st 2009 Andre Reed WR 4th 2014 1995 Buccaneers Warren Sapp DT 1st 2013 Derrick Brooks LB 1st 2014 1996 Ravens Jonathan Ogden OT 1st 2013 Ray Lewis LB 1st 2018 Source: ESPN Stats & Information
It's well-known how Baltimore could've made different decisions in the first round in 1996. The Ravens could've ended up with running back Lawrence Phillips (the favored pick of owner Art Modell) instead of Ogden at No. 4 overall and linebacker Reggie Brown (their top choice before he was selected by the Lions) rather than Lewis at No. 26.
What many don't remember is how Ogden and Lewis first met. In 1995, UCLA and Miami opened their seasons against each other, and Ogden delivered a cut block on Lewis.
It's something that Lewis has yet to forget.
"We got on the plane to L.A. [for the Playboy All-American event], and I'm like, 'Why did you have to cut me like that?'" Lewis said to Ogden last year on a video shot by the Ravens' website.
Ogden responded, "He's fast. I had to lay out to get him."
Ogden and Lewis eventually landed on the fledgling Ravens and became the cornerstones on offense and defense. They combined for 29 seasons and 23 Pro Bowls as well as being named first-team All-Pro 11 times.
The only players drafted by the same team in the same year and went to the Hall of Fame in their first year of eligibility were Terry Bradshaw and Mel Blount. But the Pittsburgh Steelers all-time greats weren't selected in the same round, like first-rounders Ogden and Lewis.
In 2013, Ogden became the fourth offensive tackle to get voted in on his first ballot. Five years later, Lewis became one of six middle linebackers to do so, joining Ray Nitschke (1978), Dick Butkus (1979), Jack Lambert (1990), Mike Singletary (1998) and Brian Urlacher (2018).
"It’s pretty clear Ray was the heart and soul of the Ravens for 17 years," Ogden said. "If anyone is deserving of this honor, it’s Ray Lewis. He is a guy we all looked to -- both on offense and defense -- to lead our team. He was definitely the catalyst for our 2000 Super Bowl team, and throughout the years, he helped define what it means to be a Raven."Baltimore Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti predicted a change to the NFL catch rule, which played a major factor in several games this season, including Super Bowl LII.
Asked about the definition of a catch, Bisciotti shook his head for a few seconds before answering.
"The whole thing is stupid," Bisciotti said at Friday's "State of the Ravens" news conference. " I heard Roger’s [Goodell] thing. I heard the whole objective/subjective thing. I agree with it. Start over. It’s just ridiculous."
The winning touchdown in the Philadelphia Eagles' 41-33 win over the New England Patriots was controversial because of the confusing rule.
When Zach Ertz scored an 11-yard touchdown with 2 minutes 21 seconds left in the game, it had to be determined whether the ball survived the ground (the ball popped in the air when he dove across the goal line) or whether he took enough steps to establish himself as a runner. The ruling on the field was confirmed, but some still wondered whether it was the correct call.
It was seven weeks ago when the Patriots beat the Pittsburgh Steelers on an overturned touchdown because of the catch rule. Jesse James' 10-yard, potential winning touchdown didn't hold up to replay after official Tony Corrente explained the ball shifted as James twisted his way into the end zone.
"I think sometimes things have to get really, really bad before there is change," Bisciotti said. "I bet you that there is going to be a significant change in that. A football move? I mean, how you can catch the ball, get both feet down, turn towards the end zone and start diving for it, and they say it’s not a football move? No. It’s stupid."
Bisciotti has long defended officials when asked about them throughout the years.
"It is such a hard job, they do such a good job, and yet we’re sitting there looking at five different HD camera angles, and then they’re changing some things, and I think it’s worse than it’s ever been," Bisciotti said.The NFL draft begins Thursday night in Philadelphia (8 p.m. ET, ESPN). While the 2017 prospects dominate the headlines this week, we’re looking forward to next year. Here’s a peek at the top players on each Big 12 roster, listed alphabetically by school, for the draft next year:
Baylor DE Brian Nance
Here’s a bit of a wild-card choice, since Nance didn’t actually play for the Bears last season due to an academic issue. But the 6-foot-3, 250-pound pass-rusher has freaky talent and was named the program’s most improved defensive player this spring. If he can put together a productive senior season, NFL scouts will take notice. -- Max Olson
Iowa State WR Allen Lazard
Lazard possesses the size and speed to climb draft boards next year after opting to return to school as a senior. A returning first-team All-Big 12 selection and easily the Cyclones’ most readymade offensive prospect for the next level, he has lived with high expectations for years as a homegrown prospect. -- Mitch Sherman
Defensive end Dorance Armstrong Jr. has developed into an NFL prospect after gaining nearly 40 pounds in his first two years at Kansas. Nick Tre. Smith/Icon Sportswire
Kansas DE Dorance Armstrong Jr.
Credit the Jayhawks for turning Armstrong into a beast. He’s gained nearly 40 pounds in two years, developing into the Big 12’s best defensive lineman who led the league with 20 tackles for loss last fall as a sophomore. He’s planning to take a step forward in 2017, which would likely spell the end of Armstrong’s KU career a possible first-round landing spot. -- Sherman
Kansas State OT Dalton Risner
Risner took over at center as a redshirt freshman in 2015 and moved to right tackle last fall without missing a beat. His versatility gives him an edge over other linemen and earns Risner the nod here over center Reid Najvar and defensive tackle Will Geary, both seniors in 2017. In fact, if Risner leaves early next year, he may rate as one of the best centers in the draft. -- Sherman
Oklahoma OT Orlando Brown
Oklahoma’s starting left tackle since 2015, Brown is a load in the running game. He’s also done well protecting QB Baker Mayfield’s blind side. Brown might project to be a right tackle in the NFL. But either way, he could be one of the top tackles in the draft. By the way, don’t sleep on Mayfield here, either. He might not have prototypical size. But with already 27 wins in his career to go along with a strong arm, he could be a sleeper in the 2018 draft. -- Jake Trotter
Oklahoma State QB Mason Rudolph
Rudolph considered leaving early for the draft -- and given the uncertainty in this draft at quarterback, could’ve been a Day 1 or 2 pick. But with a loaded offense coming back around, he opted to return, too. With a big final season, Rudolph could play his way into becoming one of the top QBs available next year. -- Trotter
TCU LB Travin Howard
He has been a tackling machine at TCU, and Howard’s athleticism could give him the versatility to fit in different roles at the next level. Cornerback Ranthony Texada, center Austin Schlottmann, offensive tackle Joseph Noteboom and running back Kyle Hicks all have draftable upside, as well. -- Trotter
Texas OT Connor Williams
The athletic 6-6, 320-pound lineman is an elite left tackle prospect who’s developed into a first-team All-American in just two seasons at Texas. He’s started every game of his career and allowed only five pressures last season, according to Pro Football Focus. On a team with few seniors, Texas’ top draft prospects next year might be three-and-done juniors. -- Olson
Texas Tech WR Dylan Cantrell
The Red Raiders’ top draft prospect next year is likely going to be Nic Shimonek or one of his senior receivers -- Cantrell, Cameron Batson or maybe even Derrick Willies. When he’s been healthy, Cantrell has been a physical and reliable threat. The 6-3, 220-pound outside receiver scored eight TDs in 10 games last year. If he can stay on the field, he’ll shine this fall. -- Olson
West Virginia S Kyzir White
Oozing athleticism and with good bloodlines to boot, Kyzir White, the brother of former first-round pick Kevin White, wreaks havoc for the Mountaineers as a hybrid safety-linebacker. At 6-2 and 220 pounds , he could fit now in the NFL at either level of defense, earning White the nod in this spot over offensive guard Kyle Bosch. -- ShermanTexas cornerback Aaron Williams will forgo his senior season and enter the NFL Draft, according to a report in the Austin American-Statesman.
Longhorns coaches were informed of the decision on Thursday. The NFL Draft Advisory Committee told Williams that he would project as a first or second-round pick, and he also consulted with several former Longhorns and NFL scouts before making the decision.
According to the report, Williams hasn't signed with an agent yet, but plans to soon.
"He feels good with his decision,” Williams' father, Anthony Williams, told the paper. “One of the things I told him as father is that there are a lot of moving parts to this and he’s got to live with his decision and not look back. He prayed about it and is at peace with it."Missouri sophomore defensive end Aldon Smith is forgoing his final two seasons of eligibility to enter the NFL Draft, the university announced on Friday.
"I’d like to thank everyone at Mizzou for supporting me," Smith said in a release. "The coaches, our fans and alumni, everyone has been great, and they’ve definitely helped me get to this point. It’s been my dream for as long as I can remember to play in the NFL, so this is something I’m really excited for."
Smith suffered a broken leg early in the season that forced him to miss three games and was still hampered by the injury briefly when he returned, but he finished with 48 total tackles, including 10 tackles for loss and 5.5 sacks.
"There’s no question that Aldon is one of the most gifted athletes in the country at his position," Missouri coach Gary Pinkel said. "We’d love to have the chance to coach him longer, but we’re 100 percent behind him and supportive with this decision."
Smith redshirted his first year at Missouri, allowing him to be three years removed from high school and draft eligible. He joins his teammate, quarterback Blaine Gabbert as early entrants into the draft. Gabbert, a junior, declared for the draft earlier this week.
Before this season, receiver Jeremy Maclin was the only Gary Pinkel recruit to leave school early for the draft. Smith and Gabbert's departures make it three.After months of maneuvering by both sides, the NFL finally stepped aside and let Terrelle Pryor through its gates.
But not without leaving a puzzling impediment in his path.
The NFL on Thursday declared Pryor eligible for the NFL's supplemental draft, which will take place Monday after being postponed (because of Pryor's situation). The former Ohio State quarterback and his legal team went to great lengths to show that his situation with Ohio State had indeed changed, a requirement for any player wishing to enter the supplemental draft.
Regardless of what you think about Pryor and his misdeeds at Ohio State, he shouldn't be deprived of a chance to earn a living. Pro football is a business, and if Pryor can provide the services an NFL team needs, he should be given the opportunity to work.
Here's the odd part about the NFL's decision: Pryor is suspended from practicing or playing for the first five games after he signs with a pro club (he can attend meetings). Remember, Pryor would have been sidelined the first five games this season had he returned to Ohio State for selling memorabilia items in exchange for cash and tattoos. That is, until a separate NCAA investigation resulted in Ohio State ruling Pryor ineligible for the entire season, a decision Pryor and his lawyers wanted to help him enter the supplemental draft.
Huh?
I know a lot of folks want Pryor to be punished for his conduct in Columbus. The NFL is already being praised for suspending Pryor. But carrying over a college punishment to the pro level -- when no laws were broken -- seems odd and inconsistent. The Big Ten Network's Howard Griffith called it a "dangerous precedent."
From the NFL's memo to its teams:
"... Pryor made decisions that undermine the integrity of the eligibility rules for the NFL Draft. Those actions included failing to cooperate with the NCAA and hiring an agent in violation of NCAA rules, which resulted in Ohio State declaring him ineligible to continue playing college football. Pryor then applied to enter the NFL after the regular draft. Pryor had accepted at the end of the 2010 college football season a suspension for the first five games of the 2011 season for violating NCAA rules. Pryor will be ineligible to practice prior to or play in the first five games of the NFL regular season after he signs."
Let's not forget what the supplemental draft is: a chance for players whose eligibility situation changed after the regular NFL draft in April to earn money from teams willing to pay them. As The (Cleveland) Plain Dealer's Doug Lesmerises tweeted, the supplemental draft is "by definition a rule breakers' draft." Should all impending punishments for players at the college level now be carried over to the NFL?
It seems like the NFL is throwing the NCAA a bone at a very difficult time for college sports' governing body. After all the scandals at high-profile programs, most recently the Miami bombshell dropped earlier this week, the NCAA needs to feel like it still matters. Roger Goodell might be getting a Christmas card from Mark Emmert. Yippee.
For Pryor, the suspension likely isn't a huge deal. Rookie quarterbacks rarely see the game field, and those joining a team so close to the season can pretty much forget about it.
Pryor tweeted Thursday morning: "God bless and thanks for support! Time to have a little fun!!"
Ohio State hopes it's also time to create some more distance between itself and its former quarterback.Patriots owner Robert Kraft spoke at a joint news conference with owners and players in Washington, DC.
His comments:
"I'd like to apologize to the fans, that for the last 5, 6 months we've been talking about the business of football, not what goes on on the field [with] the teams in each market. But the end result is we've been able to have an agreement that will allow this sport to flourish over the next decade. We've done that in a way that is unique among the major sports; every team in our league, all 32, will be competitive. We've improved player safety and we've remembered the players who've played in the past.
"I want to give a special compliment to Commissioner Goodell and De Smith, because the commissioner has to deal with 32 tough and demanding owners. He's been able to keep that balance, but DeMaurice Smith has come in and he's managing 1,900 players, a bunch of different professionals, it's a new CBA with tricky language, and he was able to keep all those things going and come up with an agreement that he and Roger did together with their two teams.
"Lastly, what kept me at the table the last four-and-a-half months was seeing the players who represented the player representatives, who represented the league's players. They didn't just look at the short-term interests of their own playing careers, but they looked long-term, especially [Colts center] Jeff Saturday and Domonique Foxworth. I was so impressed with them, that they acted as principals at the table, looking out what was good for the game.
"I believe you're going to see a very great NFL over the next decade and I hope we gave a little lesson to the people in Washington because the debt crisis is a lot easier to fix than this deal was. Thank you."Quick-hit thoughts around the NFL and with the Patriots:
1. When it comes to the Patriots' plans this offseason, the initial thought from here is that there will be a two-pronged approach at receiver and safety – one veteran in free agency, one prospect in the draft. Those are two areas I anticipate the club pursuing aggressively. Looks like a lot of potential options in free agency.
2. I don’t buy into the line of thinking that the Patriots need to alter their approach and “go for it” because Tom Brady will be 35 in August and the window of opportunity is closing. They were a bouncing football away from winning the Super Bowl this year (two forced fumbles both recovered by the Giants), and with a good draft and some help in free agency, they should be right back in the hunt again. It takes some good fortune, too.
3. Before the final preseason game of 2011, with the Giants visiting the Patriots, I remember how the Giants were taking heat in New York for not doing enough in the offseason to improve their team. The Jets had generated much more buzz. But general manager Jerry Reese didn’t flinch, which is a good reminder that those who stick with their plan and scout and draft well will usually outlast those looking for splashy headlines.
4. First-year Buccaneers head coach Greg Schiano is having a tough time in his search for a defensive coordinator, and while it might not be popular among Patriots followers based on the history with the organization, here is a suggestion: Eric Mangini. I think Mangini knows personnel, is a good Xs and Os coach, and his prior experience as an NFL head coach would seemingly be a benefit to an NFL first-timer like Schiano.
5. With Texans outside linebacker/defensive end Mario Williams set to become a free agent, it reminds me of Julius Peppers two years ago. The Patriots inquired about Peppers at that time. Makes sense to think they’d at least dip their toe into the Williams waters.
6. Impressive that even though the Texans might lose Williams, they’re still viewed as one of the favorites in the AFC next season thanks to some solid drafting (particularly on defense) and with Wade Phillips returning for his second season as defensive coordinator. For those hoping the Patriots can adopt a new identity on defense, the Texans are a good example of how quickly it can be done.
7. The Steelers looked old to me in their wild-card round playoff loss to the Broncos. I also thought the Ravens were trending older. It’s tough to remain competitive while staying young, as the Patriots can attest. Patriots team president Jonathan Kraft alluded to that during his Friday ESPNBoston Radio interview, noting that only seven players remained from the Super Bowl XLII roster and that it could be viewed as a good sign that the team was back in the Super Bowl four years later after such roster turnover.
8. Defensive end Mark Anderson was one of the Patriots’ best free-agent signings this year. In Chicago, where things fizzled out for Anderson in 2010, they’re still trying to fill his role.
9. Easy to say when it's not your money, but I think the Jets are going to regret not cutting ties with receiver Santonio Holmes. They would have had to eat a $7.75 million guarantee by cutting him. Instead, they are now guaranteeing him $15.25 million over the next two seasons.
10. Felt like there was too much instability in the Patriots secondary in 2011 for the unit to be successful, and in retrospect, the team’s handling of the safety spot seems fair to scrutinize. In terms of decisions I’d imagine Bill Belichick would like to have back, I’d put releasing James Sanders alongside the acquisitions of Albert Haynesworth and Chad Ochocinco at the top of the list. Amazing to think that after all the headlines Haynesworth and Ochocinco generated in late July/early August, they were essentially non-factors.Quick-hit thoughts around the NFL and with the Patriots:
Rob Gronkowski's forearm troubles originated on an extra point against the Colts 11 months ago. Greg M. Cooper/US Presswire
1. With tight end Rob Gronkowski cleared by all doctors to make his 2013 debut today against the Jets, it is topical to revisit the play, and coaching decision, in which Gronkowski was initially injured. Gronkowski, as we remember, was playing the right wing position on the field goal protection team when he broke his left forearm against the Colts last November, which sparked some to ask the question why such a critical player on offense was being exposed to added injury risk in that role on special teams. For those curious if Bill Belichick has changed his approach along those lines, the answer is a decisive no. The Patriots’ right wing on the field goal protection unit last Sunday was 2012 first-round draft choice Chandler Jones, one of the team’s most critical players on defense.
2. As for Gronkowski, his agent Drew Rosenhaus put out the word on Friday that he had been cleared by all doctors, paving the way for his return to action today. But based on the way Gronkowski practiced this week, it seemed like the decision was made earlier than that. Starting on Wednesday, Gronkowski had a higher energy level in practice this week and had shifted things into a higher gear with his route-running and the intensity of his work, which gave teammates a stronger feeling that this was going to be the week for his debut.
3. The contracts for Patriots players Jerod Mayo, Danny Amendola and Tommy Kelly all include $31,250 per-game roster bonuses, so every game they miss will cost them some money. For Mayo, landing on season-ending injured reserve means he will miss out on $312,500. Amendola is out today, the fourth game of the year he won’t suit up, which brings his season total to $125,000, while Kelly’s second game missed puts his total at $62,500. Also, cornerback Aqib Talib will miss his first game of the season, which will cost him his per-game roster bonus of $23,437.50. Talib also has a $500,000 bonus if he’s named to the Pro Bowl, which is something to keep in mind if he misses time in the coming weeks. In the past few years, the Patriots have seemed to include more per-game roster bonuses in contracts, which one would think agents generally would like to avoid.
4a. Jets rookie defensive tackle Sheldon Richardson’s claim that the NFL babies Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, which turned into a splashy back sports page cover in the New York Post, is laughable. When I’m looking for NFL perspective, someone with a grand total of six regular-season games played doesn’t qualify.
4b. As for Richardson, he’s been one of the most impressive rookie defenders we’ve seen so far this season. Bills linebacker Kiko Alonso (second round, 46th overall) tops the list. The Patriots, for what it’s worth, had Alonso in for a pre-draft visit at Gillette Stadium.
4c. One other random league-based perspective: When I watch Seahawks safety Earl Thomas make an interception like he did on Thursday night, showing terrific range, instincts and ball skills along the left sideline after initially aligning as a single-high safety, it makes me think he’s the closest safety currently in the NFL who looks like Ed Reed in his prime.
5. The NFL Players Association is no longer pursuing its grievance against the Patriots seeking the removal of team doctor Thomas Gill. When the NFLPA and Patriots settled the Jonathan Fanene grievance last month, a “settlement” on the Gill issue was wrapped into that ruling, as we understand it. The “settlement” had each side sending a letter to its constituents -- the NFLPA to its players about fully disclosing any medical issues (that was the crux of the Fanene issue) and the NFL to its medical staffs about the role of the team doctor as it relates to player care. Most importantly for Gill, he clearly has the support of Belichick, and seems to have plenty of it in the locker room as well.
6a. Did you Know, Part I: With a win today, the Patriots would tie the Raiders for most victories among the original eight American Football League franchises with 432.
Tom Brady faces Geno Smith's Jets as the Pats try to win their 13th in a row against AFC East foes. Getty Images, AP Photo
6b. Did you Know, Part II: The Patriots enter today’s game against the Jets having won 12 straight games against AFC East opponents. That is the longest active NFL streak against division foes, and the fifth-longest win streak since the 1970 merger. The record is 15 straight, held by the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins.
6c. Did you Know, Part III: ESPN’s Stats & Information notes that entering this week’s games, 65 of the 92 contests played have been within seven points or fewer at some point during the fourth quarter. That’s the most through the first six weeks of a season. The previous record was 64, which happened in 1999 and 2004.
7. Jets rookie quarterback Geno Smith threw two ill-advised interceptions in last Sunday’s loss to the Steelers -- both as the Jets were driving toward the end zone -- which reflected some of his overall struggles through six games. Smith has committed 13 turnovers and has been sacked 21 times, which is the highest total of any quarterback this season. The Giants’ Eli Manning (33), Miami’s Ryan Tannehill (32) and Baltimore’s Joe Flacco (28) round out the top four on that list. With the Dolphins coming to town next week, Tannehill’s inclusion among the group (he’s been sacked 24 times) highlights how pass protection has been a big issue for the Dolphins.
8. Last year, and even beyond, Patriots cornerbacks coach Josh Boyer was the subject of media-based criticism, with some going as far as to detail his background and question if he was qualified for the job. It was easy fodder because prior to joining the Patriots in 2006, Boyer’s coaching experience came at King’s College (Pa.), Dayton, Kent State, Bryant University and the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. Also, it wasn’t as if the Patriots had much success drafting and developing defensive backs. But even then, I thought the criticism was unfair because it wasn’t like many, if any, of the Patriots’ defensive backs were breaking through elsewhere. And now that the Patriots’ defensive backs have been one of the strengths of the team through the first six weeks, is Boyer all of a sudden a good coach? The answer: He’s essentially the same coach, just coaching better players, and as many coaches will say, that’s what makes them look smartest.
9. Belichick paid Stephen Gostkowski one of the highest compliments for a kicker this week, saying, “He’s a solid football player, too.” Not all kickers fall into the same category. “We’ve been around a lot of specialists, but his mentality is more of a competitive athlete,” Belichick said, citing Gostkowski’s collegiate baseball career. “He makes tackles on the kickoff team and works out in the offseason program with the regular position players and competes well with them.” Gostkowski’s 26 touchbacks rank second in the NFL behind Denver’s Matt Prater (35) and he’s 16 of 17 on field goals this season (no NFL kicker has made or attempted more field goals).
10. The Patriots' decision to go with rookie Ryan Allen over incumbent punter Zoltan Mesko was made, in part, due to financial considerations. Allen's $405,000 salary was significantly less than Mesko's $1.3 million, and Allen also was signed through 2015 while Mesko would be a free agent after the '13 season. But that wasn't the only reason. Allen had clearly shown potential and a stronger leg in the preseason, but just wasn't as consistent as Mesko. So the Patriots had to project future improvement in that area and the decision looks like the right one through six weeks. Allen ranks 10th in the NFL in net punting (41.4), while Mesko (37.7) checks in 27th. Allen also ranks 16th in punting average (45.6), while Mesko (42.7) is 32nd. Allen has also served as the holder for Gostkowski, and hasn't had any major issues.Quick-hit thoughts and notes around the New England Patriots and NFL:
1. Running back Stevan Ridley is scheduled to make his first visits in free agency this week as he explores potential opportunities for 2015 that would have him playing elsewhere from New England. Ridley tore his right ACL on Oct. 12, had surgery Nov. 18, and is on target to receive full medical clearance in about six weeks. Ridley is probably looking at a prove-it type one-year deal because of the injury and thus one consideration he’s weighing is landing with a team where there is a great chance to break through. Look for the needle to move a little with Ridley this week as he takes a couple visits.
Chandler Jones is looking to get healthy after post-Super Bowl surgery. AP Photo/Lynne Sladky
2. Patriots defensive end Chandler Jones has spent the majority of the offseason rehabilitating at Gillette Stadium, as I’m told he’s among a group of players recovering from post-Super Bowl surgery. Jones, who missed six games in 2014 with a hip injury, has recently been walking with the aid of crutches. I don’t get the sense from those close to Jones that there is any significant long-range concern about his health and availability, but when a player’s offseason puts him on more of the rehabilitation track than the standard offseason workouts, it’s deemed worthy of note.
3. Defensive tackle Vince Wilfork’s two-year, $9 million contract ($5 million guaranteed) with the Texans didn’t seem unreasonable for the Patriots to match, which initially sparked a question in my mind of whether Wilfork simply preferred to finish his career somewhere other than New England. But I now feel confident that wasn’t the case. My strong sense is that the Texans’ contract offer was at a higher level than where the Patriots wanted to be, and that’s mostly what led to the end result.
4. The Patriots might be viewed as hardline negotiators by many, but I had one player agent at the NFL’s annual meeting tell me the club is one of the favorites to deal with because of Bill Belichick’s decision-making authority. It was explained to me that when the agent negotiates with other clubs, often times the team official doing the negotiating has to run all information up the flagpole to the appropriate people in the organization and that can bog down the process. In New England, with Belichick intimately involved in the process at times, it’s more of a one-stop shop and can expedite deals getting done.
5a. Patriots quarterback Tom Brady accounts 10.2 percent of the team’s salary-cap space in 2015, which is the highest mark on the team, followed by linebacker Jerod Mayo (7.5), tight end Rob Gronkowski (6.3), left tackle Nate Solder (5.4), right tackle Sebastian Vollmer (5.1) and safety Devin McCourty (4.3). For a comparison, cornerback Darrelle Revis accounts for a team-high 10.7 percent of the Jets’ cap space, followed by left tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson (7.8), center Nick Mangold (6.9), receiver Brandon Marshall (5.1), linebacker David Harris (5.0), cornerback Antonio Cromartie (4.6) and defensive lineman Muhammad Wilkerson (4.6). Revis, in essence, is the Jets’ big quarterback contract.
5b. Brady played golf Friday with Michael Jordan in the Bahamas, the day before pictures surfaced on Barstool Sports of him playing basketball with MJ. Given the competitive nature of the two, we wonder how much small talk there actually was between them on the course, but that's one we surely would have volunteered to carry the bag to find out. Two of the greatest of all time in their respective sports. Brady's former teammates Larry Izzo, Wes Welker and Mike Vrabel, among other friends, were also together with him on the links.
6. As we start to get a better feel for the 2015 draft, it’s always good to see if the opinions of coaches and scouts align with those of media analysts. With that in mind, Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said one thing that has stood out to him is that “if you’re in the edge-rusher market, whether you define them as defensive ends or outside linebackers, this draft is rich in that area.” As for the Patriots, they are already deep at that spot with Chandler Jones (2016), Rob Ninkovich (2016), Jabaal Sheard (2016), Michael Buchanan (2016), Zach Moore (2017) and Jake Bequette (2016), so for them it’s a case where demand doesn’t seem to align with the supply.
7. From the things that probably interest me more than others department: If the last two years at the NFL’s owners meetings are any indication, the Philadelphia media market is the most intense of any in the league. This year at the meeting, owner Jeffrey Lurie and head coach Chip Kelly faced a barrage of aggressive questions, and it had me thinking that coaching the Eagles probably has some similarities to how Terry Francona once described managing the Red Sox. You’re under fire every day, and it takes a coach or executive to be wired a certain way, as well as players to have a certain mentality, to succeed there.
8. My sense on where things stand with the Patriots and free-agent guard Dan Connolly is that it’s a situation where the Patriots basically have had Connolly test the market while keeping an open dialogue with him, and then they’ll see if they can ultimately find something that works. At this point, it doesn’t seem like many other clubs have stepped up to spark the process along, which puts it in a holding pattern of sorts. With Connolly still on the market, the Patriots look a bit light at the guard spot.
9. The Patriots host the Jaguars in 2015, which will provide us an up-close look at quarterback Blake Bortles (No. 3 overall pick, 2014) to assess his standing among some of the NFL’s up-and-coming prospects. Part of the Jaguars’ thinking this offseason has been to surround Bortles with more weapons (e.g. signing tight end Julius Thomas), as well as improving the pass protection in front of him (e.g. signing right tackle Jermey Parnell), and they might not be done yet. Free-agent receiver Greg Jennings is drawing some consideration from Jacksonville, as his savvy in the slot and veteran presence might be a nice complement to second-year pass-catchers Marqise Lee, Allen Robinson and Allen Hurns.
10. For the fourth time in his 15 years as Patriots coach, Bill Belichick was honored as AFC coach of the year at the Kansas City-based “101 Awards” in late February. The “101 Awards” is a long-running tradition (since 1969) and while Belichick didn’t attend the event to receive the award due to a scheduling conflict, his taped remarks expressed appreciation for the honor and also for what late Chiefs owner Lamar Hunt meant to the game of football and the AFC. One of the event’s organizers, Gary Heise, relayed that Belichick told the story of how Hunt came over to him before one of the team’s Super Bowl victories, shook his hand, and told him he hoped the Patriots would win because they were representing the AFC.Steve Young admits that Tom Brady looks as explosive at 40 years old as he did when he was 25. (0:40)
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- Quarterback Tom Brady leads the New England Patriots into Saturday’s AFC divisional-round playoff game against the Tennessee Titans, and receiver Danny Amendola wouldn’t want it any other way.
“He's the ultimate professional, and he gets his teammates better. He demands a lot. We all want to win for him, and we all want to play hard for him, and we love him as a teammate,” Amendola said. “It's great to be a part of playing for him."
As for what’s ahead, Brady explained how even though the Patriots have made a habit of advancing to this point, their urgency remains high.
“I don’t think you take it for granted. It’s hard to get to this point. You do all the meetings and walk-throughs, and March, April, May, June try to work out and be prepared for the season, and you get through it, and you make it through a whole season and have a chance to compete with everything at stake,” he said.
“It’s pretty cool for all of us. I’m sure everyone will be excited for Saturday night. It’s going to be a great experience. I know the fans will be into it. We'll be into it. Hopefully, we can go out and play well.”
AFC divisional round: Titans at Patriots Tennessee (9-7) at New England (13-3), Saturday, 8:15 p.m. ET, CBS • Titans' Henry earns workhorse role
• How Patriots roster has turned over
• Belichick: Execution over experience
• What Titans can expect from Patriots
• Pats prepare for 'smashmouth' Titans
• Big question for every playoff team
• Ranking clearest paths to Super Bowl
• Playoffs schedule | Divisional matchups
• Insider predictions through Super Bowl
• How to bet Tennessee-New England
Brady usually does.
Here are 12 postseason nuggets on No. 12:
1. His 63 touchdown passes in the postseason is easily an NFL best. Joe Montana (45), Brett Favre (44), Peyton Manning (40) and Aaron Rodgers (36) round out the top five.
2. He is the all-time leader in postseason passing yards (9,094), with Manning (7,339), Favre (5,855), Montana (5,772), John Elway (4,964) and Ben Roethlisberger (4,787) next in line.
3. His 34 playoff starts -- which is more than two full regular-season schedules -- are the most ever by a quarterback (or any player in NFL history). Manning (27), Favre (24), Montana (23) and Elway (21) round out the quarterback list, while Adam Vinatieri (30), Jerry Rice (29), D.D. Lewis (27) and Manning (27) fill out the top tier of the list including all players.
4. Brady’s 25 playoff wins are the most by a starting quarterback, with Montana (16) next.
5. His 831 postseason completions top Manning (649), Favre (481) and Montana (460).
6. Brady’s 12 postseason games with 300 yards passing are an all-time high, with Manning (nine) and Drew Brees (seven) second and third on that list.
7. His five Super Bowl championships are the most ever by a quarterback, followed by Terry Bradshaw (four) and Montana (four).
8. He is tied with Oakland’s Daryle Lamonica (Dec. 21, 1969) and San Francisco’s Steve Young (Jan. 29, 1995) as the NFL’s all-time leader for most postseason touchdown passes in one game, with six. Brady accomplished the feat Jan. 14, 2012, versus Denver.
9. His 26-of-28 passing performance in a Jan. 12, 2008, divisional-round win over the Jaguars ranks as the best-ever completion percentage (92.9) in a postseason game. Phil Simms (22-of-25, 88 percent, on Jan. 25, 1987) and Kurt Warner (29-of-33, 87.9 percent, on Jan. 10, 2010) are right behind him.
10. In divisional-round play, Brady has posted an 11-2 record, completing 316 of 509 pass attempts for 3,700 passing yards and 26 touchdowns.
11. Seven conference-championship victories are the most of any starting quarterback in the Super Bowl era (since 1966). He has appeared in 11 conference championship games overall, passing Gene Upshaw and George Blanda, both of whom had played in 10.
12. His seven Super Bowl appearances are the most ever by a player, passing defensive lineman Mike Lodish, who played in six between his time with the Bills (four) and Broncos (two).The Buffalo Bills are out of the 2017 NFL playoffs, and now they face big questions in the offseason, starting with their quarterback situation. Will Tyrod Taylor, who had an inconsistent season and has a moderate cap hit if released, be back?
Buffalo also has fifth-round pick Nathan Peterman, but he had five first-half interceptions in his lone start of the season and might not inspire confidence as the Bills' long-term answer.
So who will be under center for the Bills in 2018? And what's next for Taylor, who could be a coveted free agent for several quarterback-needy teams? We asked our panel of ESPN NFL insiders to weigh in.
Who will be the Bills' primary starting quarterback in 2018?
Matt Bowen, NFL writer: Peterman for now -- but let's keep an eye on the draft and free agency. With two picks in the first round (Nos. 21 and 22), the Bills might be in a position to draft Oklahoma's Baker Mayfield or they could test free agency with veteran Case Keenum if he hits the market.
Mike Clay, NFL writer: Sam Bradford. Sean McDermott made it pretty clear during the regular season that he’s looking for a change from Taylor, so look for the team to add a veteran to compete with Nate Peterman for the 2018 job. Bradford makes a ton of sense as a solid veteran who plays efficient ball -- a logical fit for a run-first team that wants to lean on its defense. Considering his durability concerns, a relatively inexpensive one- or two-year deal makes sense for both sides.
2018 NFL DRAFT Round 1: Thursday, 8 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 2-3: Friday, 7 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 4-7: Sat., noon, ESPN/ABC/ESPN App
Where: Arlington, Texas
NFL draft coverage » | Full order: 1-256 » • Kiper's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• McShay's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• Kiper and McShay's draft reset »
• Draft predictions for all 32 teams »
• Draft Herbies: Kirk's best of the best »
• McShay's draft buzz: What I'm hearing »
• McShay's top five needs for every team »
Dan Graziano, NFL writer: Alex Smith. I say Buffalo drafts another quarterback and signs a veteran. Could be tough for Smith to swallow another situation in which he's holding a spot for a draft pick and might be there only a year or two, but Buffalo has a lot to offer as a playoff team with a run game and a good defense. Peterman is of course in the picture, but I doubt the Bills feel great about anointing him the starter this offseason.
Mike Rodak, ESPN NFL Nation Bills writer: Smith. A lot depends on whether the Bills decide to keep offensive coordinator Rick Dennison or, if not, what sort of quarterback they see fitting their scheme. But the strategy from Buffalo could mirror what the Chiefs had this season: a game-managing veteran keeping the seat warm for a high draft pick at the position. If the asking price is reasonable for Smith in a trade, I could see Bills coach Sean McDermott doing a deal with his mentor, Andy Reid. Whomever the Bills sign, the expectation is they will draft a quarterback in the first round, potentially by trading up with their No. 21 and No. 22 (from Kansas City) picks they own.
Mike Sando, senior NFL writer: Peterman is the leader in the clubhouse, but when I projected starters to various teams during a project last month, Smith came to mind as a good fit. Of course, Smith would be a good fit lots of places. Some Bills fans groaned when I suggested Mayfield could be a quarterback available to Buffalo when the Bills are drafting. Truth is it's just too early to know how the team will proceed at the position.
Field Yates, NFL Insider: Peterman, but I don't think that means he's the long-term answer. The Bills are a unique team in that they made the postseason while also acquiring draft capital in the offseason in the form of extra first-, second- and third-round picks. That puts Buffalo in a spot to draft a young quarterback early in 2018 while also leaning on Peterman early in the season if the drafted quarterback is not an immediate plug-and-play starter.
Which team is the best fit for Tyrod Taylor in 2018?
Bowen: Denver Broncos. They have a win-now defense with pass-rushers and aggressive coverage corners. But they need a QB who can establish some offensive consistency and protect the ball. Given Taylor's ability to create outside of the pocket, and his low turnover rate, he could be a fit as the starter in '18 if the Broncos cater to his talent with scheme and game plan.
Clay: Broncos. Alex Smith to the Cardinals makes too much sense, and I believe the Jaguars will add a rookie to compete with Bortles, which opens the door for a Taylor/first-round rookie competition in Denver. The window is closing on the Demaryius Thomas/Emmanuel Sanders duo, and the Broncos’ defense is still one of the league’s best. This is a team that can make a playoff run with a few savvy offseason moves and by adding a quarterback who will protect the ball. Taylor, who sports the best interception rate in NFL history at 1.4 percent, fits the bill and adds value with his legs.
Graziano: Broncos. They still need to address the position long-term, and they could draft a QB, as well. But Taylor isn't a guy you'd worry about standing in the way of a prospect who came more quickly than you expected. Denver seems to be determined to prove it can win with adequate QB play, and Taylor can certainly give them that.
Rodak: Jacksonville Jaguars. Could Taylor's NFL career continue where his Bills career might have ended Sunday? The Jaguars were 9-0 when Blake Bortles did not throw interceptions this season, including their playoff win over Buffalo. When Bortles was intercepted at least once, they were 2-6. Swapping Bortles for Taylor would still leave the Jaguars' passing game with limitations, but it would give them a more turnover-averse quarterback who would leave it to Leonard Fournette and an elite defense to win games.
Tyrod Taylor's inconsistent play might mean the Bills turn to another signal-caller next season. Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images
Sando: Jaguars. They would be a good fit because Taylor would bring the scrambling ability Bortles possesses without all the turnovers. The Jaguars have the running game to support Taylor, who has been efficient in a low-volume pass offense.
Yates: Arizona Cardinals. Few teams have had the recent success of the Cardinals in acquiring veteran players and helping them to breathe second life into a career. Carson Palmer, Dwight Freeney and Tramon Williams are notable examples. There are many question marks this offseason in Arizona -- starting with who will replace Bruce Arians -- but Taylor would be a reasonable addition given that Arizona is far enough down the draft order (No. 15) that finding a top quarterback prospect is no sure thing.The NFL's leader in tackles for 2017 was not Luke Kuechly or Bobby Wagner, the pair of perennial Pro Bowlers who both can lay claim to being the NFL's best linebacker.
It was Preston Brown, the Buffalo Bills’ third-round pick in 2014 who enters unrestricted free agency in March having topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted.
Durability has never been a concern for Brown, who said by phone last week that he has only missed four games during his entire football career. But 2017 proved to be a transformative year for Brown, who partly attributes his uptick in production to a decision he made on his own last offseason to shed about 10 pounds and attempt to play faster.
Preston Brown topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted. Al Diaz/Zuma Press/Icon Sportswire
"I think it definitely helped throughout the course of the season. I never had any nagging little injury, hamstring or something like that," he said. "I think I had more success, more tackles, just being able to have more energy later in the game."
Brown, 25, played this past season in the "low 240s," down from his listed weight of 251 pounds. Losing the weight meant cutting out the candy he would stash in his hoodie during practices, as well as hiring a live-in personal chef to prepare him healthier meals.
For the first three years of his professional career, eating healthy meant ordering wraps from the Wendy's near the Bills' practice facility in Orchard Park, New York.
"It wasn’t [healthy]. It’s not good," Brown said last week. "[Now] I’m eating salads and greens, all the fruit and vegetable stuff I should have been eating instead of stopping by a drive-thru."
Brown's performance apparently was not lost on coach Sean McDermott, whose core message after being hired last year was respecting the everyday process that goes into winning games.
"In the exit meeting [after Buffalo's playoff loss to Jacksonville], coach made it sound like they wanted me back," Brown told ESPN. "He said some things that sounded like that. But you never know what’s going to happen during free agency. I would love to go back to Buffalo. That’s the No. 1 choice for me."
Brown was on the field for 1,098 of 1,108 defensive snaps this past season, a 99.1 percent playing-time rate that led Bills defenders. He also led Buffalo's defense in playing 99.4 percent of snaps in 2016, 98.2 percent of snaps in 2015 and 93.8 percent of snaps in 2014.
2018 NFL free agency Kirk Cousins. Jimmy Graham. Andrew Norwell. This class is already wild. Here's everything to know. • Barnwell's free agency & trade grades »
• Signings, analysis for all 32 teams »
• Ranking top 100 NFL free agents »
• Players who landed in perfect spots »
• Highest-paid players at every position »
• Who really got best free-agent deals? »
• Biggest remaining need for all 32 »
• Are Vikings NFC fave with Cousins? »
• Fantasy impact of key deals, moves »
Brown has played in all 64 regular-season games since he entered the NFL, starting every game except two during his first two months as a rookie. Since Brown supplanted then-Bills veteran linebacker Keith Rivers as a consistent starter in 2014, he has worn the radio-equipped helmet to relay defensive play calls to his teammates.
"That’s my main thing I love to do, just seeing guys grow around me," he said. "There’s so many players that have been on this defense that have gotten better since they’ve come through here."
The players around Brown have not been all that has changed. He began his NFL career playing outside linebacker in defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz's 4-3 scheme under then-coach Doug Marrone. Brown shifted to middle linebacker in coach Rex Ryan and defensive coordinator Dennis Thurman's hybrid scheme in 2015, then to inside linebacker when Thurman, Rex Ryan and his brother Rob Ryan ran a 3-4 system in 2016.
McDermott tapped Brown as his middle linebacker this past season in a 4-3 scheme run by defensive coordinator Leslie Frazier.
"I really liked the 4-3 scheme, back to doing that, having fun with the guys," Brown told ESPN. "I think it was a good fit for me. So hopefully they think it was a good fit as well. I don’t really know how things are gonna go. But I had fun last year and hope I can continue."
Brown said he would welcome the chance to re-sign with Buffalo before free agency opens March 14. How Brown is valued on the open market remains to be seen. While his tackles have increased each of his four seasons, Brown has not recorded an interception since 2015 and has three total in his career. He also has two career forced fumbles and one sack.
In comparison, Baltimore Ravens linebacker C.J. Mosley had two interceptions and three forced fumbles this past season, Kuechly had three interceptions and one forced fumble, and Wagner had two interceptions. All three were voted to the Pro Bowl.
Brown attributes his lack of sacks to him rarely being assigned to pass rush, but he contends he is better in coverage than some might think.
"People want to say, ‘liability,’ and all that stuff, but if I was a liability, if I’m the offensive coordinator, I would throw at me every third down and every time in the red zone. I haven’t given up a touchdown since my rookie year," he told ESPN. "You want to say I’m a liability, but if I had four more interceptions, they wouldn’t say that. So it’s just all about getting those numbers.
"The ball needs to bounce my way a little bit more than it has. I need to catch it when I have the opportunity. That’s the biggest thing. When you have interceptions, there’s a difference. All it takes is a few plays and it shows you can be a playmaker out there. ... Being smaller and stuff like that can help me to get to those plays and help me run a little faster to get there."
According to ESPN Stats & Information, Brown is the NFL's second-leading tackler since entering the NFL in 2014. His 504 total tackles on defense are second only to Wagner, with 518, and among good company: Kuechly ranks third with 498, Tampa Bay's Lavonte David ranks fourth with 481 and Mosley is fifth with 469.
"When you’re one of the top tacklers in the league, I think it says something," Brown told ESPN. "Everybody wants to say, ‘They're all the way down the field,’ and all that. But you got to tackle them eventually or they will just score."The NFL's leader in tackles for 2017 was not Luke Kuechly or Bobby Wagner, the pair of perennial Pro Bowlers who both can lay claim to being the NFL's best linebacker.
It was Preston Brown, the Buffalo Bills’ third-round pick in 2014 who enters unrestricted free agency in March having topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted.
Durability has never been a concern for Brown, who said by phone last week that he has only missed four games during his entire football career. But 2017 proved to be a transformative year for Brown, who partly attributes his uptick in production to a decision he made on his own last offseason to shed about 10 pounds and attempt to play faster.
Preston Brown topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted. Al Diaz/Zuma Press/Icon Sportswire
"I think it definitely helped throughout the course of the season. I never had any nagging little injury, hamstring or something like that," he said. "I think I had more success, more tackles, just being able to have more energy later in the game."
Brown, 25, played this past season in the "low 240s," down from his listed weight of 251 pounds. Losing the weight meant cutting out the candy he would stash in his hoodie during practices, as well as hiring a live-in personal chef to prepare him healthier meals.
For the first three years of his professional career, eating healthy meant ordering wraps from the Wendy's near the Bills' practice facility in Orchard Park, New York.
"It wasn’t [healthy]. It’s not good," Brown said last week. "[Now] I’m eating salads and greens, all the fruit and vegetable stuff I should have been eating instead of stopping by a drive-thru."
Brown's performance apparently was not lost on coach Sean McDermott, whose core message after being hired last year was respecting the everyday process that goes into winning games.
"In the exit meeting [after Buffalo's playoff loss to Jacksonville], coach made it sound like they wanted me back," Brown told ESPN. "He said some things that sounded like that. But you never know what’s going to happen during free agency. I would love to go back to Buffalo. That’s the No. 1 choice for me."
Brown was on the field for 1,098 of 1,108 defensive snaps this past season, a 99.1 percent playing-time rate that led Bills defenders. He also led Buffalo's defense in playing 99.4 percent of snaps in 2016, 98.2 percent of snaps in 2015 and 93.8 percent of snaps in 2014.
2018 NFL free agency Kirk Cousins. Jimmy Graham. Andrew Norwell. This class is already wild. Here's everything to know. • Barnwell's free agency & trade grades »
• Signings, analysis for all 32 teams »
• Ranking top 100 NFL free agents »
• Players who landed in perfect spots »
• Highest-paid players at every position »
• Who really got best free-agent deals? »
• Biggest remaining need for all 32 »
• Are Vikings NFC fave with Cousins? »
• Fantasy impact of key deals, moves »
Brown has played in all 64 regular-season games since he entered the NFL, starting every game except two during his first two months as a rookie. Since Brown supplanted then-Bills veteran linebacker Keith Rivers as a consistent starter in 2014, he has worn the radio-equipped helmet to relay defensive play calls to his teammates.
"That’s my main thing I love to do, just seeing guys grow around me," he said. "There’s so many players that have been on this defense that have gotten better since they’ve come through here."
The players around Brown have not been all that has changed. He began his NFL career playing outside linebacker in defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz's 4-3 scheme under then-coach Doug Marrone. Brown shifted to middle linebacker in coach Rex Ryan and defensive coordinator Dennis Thurman's hybrid scheme in 2015, then to inside linebacker when Thurman, Rex Ryan and his brother Rob Ryan ran a 3-4 system in 2016.
McDermott tapped Brown as his middle linebacker this past season in a 4-3 scheme run by defensive coordinator Leslie Frazier.
"I really liked the 4-3 scheme, back to doing that, having fun with the guys," Brown told ESPN. "I think it was a good fit for me. So hopefully they think it was a good fit as well. I don’t really know how things are gonna go. But I had fun last year and hope I can continue."
Brown said he would welcome the chance to re-sign with Buffalo before free agency opens March 14. How Brown is valued on the open market remains to be seen. While his tackles have increased each of his four seasons, Brown has not recorded an interception since 2015 and has three total in his career. He also has two career forced fumbles and one sack.
In comparison, Baltimore Ravens linebacker C.J. Mosley had two interceptions and three forced fumbles this past season, Kuechly had three interceptions and one forced fumble, and Wagner had two interceptions. All three were voted to the Pro Bowl.
Brown attributes his lack of sacks to him rarely being assigned to pass rush, but he contends he is better in coverage than some might think.
"People want to say, ‘liability,’ and all that stuff, but if I was a liability, if I’m the offensive coordinator, I would throw at me every third down and every time in the red zone. I haven’t given up a touchdown since my rookie year," he told ESPN. "You want to say I’m a liability, but if I had four more interceptions, they wouldn’t say that. So it’s just all about getting those numbers.
"The ball needs to bounce my way a little bit more than it has. I need to catch it when I have the opportunity. That’s the biggest thing. When you have interceptions, there’s a difference. All it takes is a few plays and it shows you can be a playmaker out there. ... Being smaller and stuff like that can help me to get to those plays and help me run a little faster to get there."
According to ESPN Stats & Information, Brown is the NFL's second-leading tackler since entering the NFL in 2014. His 504 total tackles on defense are second only to Wagner, with 518, and among good company: Kuechly ranks third with 498, Tampa Bay's Lavonte David ranks fourth with 481 and Mosley is fifth with 469.
"When you’re one of the top tacklers in the league, I think it says something," Brown told ESPN. "Everybody wants to say, ‘They're all the way down the field,’ and all that. But you got to tackle them eventually or they will just score."The NFL's leader in tackles for 2017 was not Luke Kuechly or Bobby Wagner, the pair of perennial Pro Bowlers who both can lay claim to being the NFL's best linebacker.
It was Preston Brown, the Buffalo Bills’ third-round pick in 2014 who enters unrestricted free agency in March having topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted.
Durability has never been a concern for Brown, who said by phone last week that he has only missed four games during his entire football career. But 2017 proved to be a transformative year for Brown, who partly attributes his uptick in production to a decision he made on his own last offseason to shed about 10 pounds and attempt to play faster.
Preston Brown topped the league with 144 tackles this past season -- 83 solo and 61 assisted. Al Diaz/Zuma Press/Icon Sportswire
"I think it definitely helped throughout the course of the season. I never had any nagging little injury, hamstring or something like that," he said. "I think I had more success, more tackles, just being able to have more energy later in the game."
Brown, 25, played this past season in the "low 240s," down from his listed weight of 251 pounds. Losing the weight meant cutting out the candy he would stash in his hoodie during practices, as well as hiring a live-in personal chef to prepare him healthier meals.
For the first three years of his professional career, eating healthy meant ordering wraps from the Wendy's near the Bills' practice facility in Orchard Park, New York.
"It wasn’t [healthy]. It’s not good," Brown said last week. "[Now] I’m eating salads and greens, all the fruit and vegetable stuff I should have been eating instead of stopping by a drive-thru."
Brown's performance apparently was not lost on coach Sean McDermott, whose core message after being hired last year was respecting the everyday process that goes into winning games.
"In the exit meeting [after Buffalo's playoff loss to Jacksonville], coach made it sound like they wanted me back," Brown told ESPN. "He said some things that sounded like that. But you never know what’s going to happen during free agency. I would love to go back to Buffalo. That’s the No. 1 choice for me."
Brown was on the field for 1,098 of 1,108 defensive snaps this past season, a 99.1 percent playing-time rate that led Bills defenders. He also led Buffalo's defense in playing 99.4 percent of snaps in 2016, 98.2 percent of snaps in 2015 and 93.8 percent of snaps in 2014.
2018 NFL free agency Kirk Cousins. Jimmy Graham. Andrew Norwell. This class is already wild. Here's everything to know. • Barnwell's free agency & trade grades »
• Signings, analysis for all 32 teams »
• Ranking top 100 NFL free agents »
• Players who landed in perfect spots »
• Highest-paid players at every position »
• Who really got best free-agent deals? »
• Biggest remaining need for all 32 »
• Are Vikings NFC fave with Cousins? »
• Fantasy impact of key deals, moves »
Brown has played in all 64 regular-season games since he entered the NFL, starting every game except two during his first two months as a rookie. Since Brown supplanted then-Bills veteran linebacker Keith Rivers as a consistent starter in 2014, he has worn the radio-equipped helmet to relay defensive play calls to his teammates.
"That’s my main thing I love to do, just seeing guys grow around me," he said. "There’s so many players that have been on this defense that have gotten better since they’ve come through here."
The players around Brown have not been all that has changed. He began his NFL career playing outside linebacker in defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz's 4-3 scheme under then-coach Doug Marrone. Brown shifted to middle linebacker in coach Rex Ryan and defensive coordinator Dennis Thurman's hybrid scheme in 2015, then to inside linebacker when Thurman, Rex Ryan and his brother Rob Ryan ran a 3-4 system in 2016.
McDermott tapped Brown as his middle linebacker this past season in a 4-3 scheme run by defensive coordinator Leslie Frazier.
"I really liked the 4-3 scheme, back to doing that, having fun with the guys," Brown told ESPN. "I think it was a good fit for me. So hopefully they think it was a good fit as well. I don’t really know how things are gonna go. But I had fun last year and hope I can continue."
Brown said he would welcome the chance to re-sign with Buffalo before free agency opens March 14. How Brown is valued on the open market remains to be seen. While his tackles have increased each of his four seasons, Brown has not recorded an interception since 2015 and has three total in his career. He also has two career forced fumbles and one sack.
In comparison, Baltimore Ravens linebacker C.J. Mosley had two interceptions and three forced fumbles this past season, Kuechly had three interceptions and one forced fumble, and Wagner had two interceptions. All three were voted to the Pro Bowl.
Brown attributes his lack of sacks to him rarely being assigned to pass rush, but he contends he is better in coverage than some might think.
"People want to say, ‘liability,’ and all that stuff, but if I was a liability, if I’m the offensive coordinator, I would throw at me every third down and every time in the red zone. I haven’t given up a touchdown since my rookie year," he told ESPN. "You want to say I’m a liability, but if I had four more interceptions, they wouldn’t say that. So it’s just all about getting those numbers.
"The ball needs to bounce my way a little bit more than it has. I need to catch it when I have the opportunity. That’s the biggest thing. When you have interceptions, there’s a difference. All it takes is a few plays and it shows you can be a playmaker out there. ... Being smaller and stuff like that can help me to get to those plays and help me run a little faster to get there."
According to ESPN Stats & Information, Brown is the NFL's second-leading tackler since entering the NFL in 2014. His 504 total tackles on defense are second only to Wagner, with 518, and among good company: Kuechly ranks third with 498, Tampa Bay's Lavonte David ranks fourth with 481 and Mosley is fifth with 469.
"When you’re one of the top tacklers in the league, I think it says something," Brown told ESPN. "Everybody wants to say, ‘They're all the way down the field,’ and all that. But you got to tackle them eventually or they will just score."ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -- Gerhard de Beer arrived at the University of Arizona on July 30, 2013 as a 6-foot-7, 240-pound South African discus thrower intent on becoming a football player.
He walked off the Buffalo Bills' practice field on June 14, 2018 as a 320-pound offensive tackle having completed his first NFL minicamp more than 8,000 miles from his hometown of Pretoria.
De Beer, who turns 24 on Thursday, is attempting to join former Pro Bowl kicker Gary Anderson and former wide receiver Jerome Pathon as part of a small group of South Africans to play a sport unfamiliar to most in their home country.
The journey to the NFL for de Beer meant sacrificing his six-pack abs and putting his promising track and field career on hold to explore a curiosity about football. It meant enduring nights of vomiting protein shakes and sleeping upright to keep down his daily diet of about 8,000 calories. It meant sitting in countless hours of meetings with Arizona graduate assistant coach Cory Zirbel to build his knowledge of the game from nothing.
Yet when de Beer fulfilled the next step of his football dream by signing with the Bills as an undrafted free agent in May, none of his work the past five years could have prepared him for a conversation during organized team activities with Bills coach Sean McDermott -- about whiffle ball.
"[De Beer] turned to the guys and he said, ‘What’s whiffle ball?’" McDermott recalled with a chuckle earlier this month. "You start there and say, ‘Hey, big challenge [for him in the United States].'"
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
"They looked at me like I was joking," de Beer told ESPN. "[I said], 'No seriously, is somebody going to tell me or do I have to go look it up?' So they said it’s like baseball but the ball has air in it. I said that sounds really tricky."
Not as tricky as trying to learn the cultural ins and outs of a foreign country, never mind a sport he admits he "knew nothing" about before moving to the United States.
"There is no manual on How To Do America 101," he said earlier this month. "It’s something that you have to experience and learn as time goes on. Just yesterday I learned a term that was derogatory that I probably shouldn’t use. It’s just things that I don’t know. I’m not trying to offend anybody; it’s just making conversation.
"I asked [my teammate] about [the term] and he said, 'What did you call me?' I’m like, ‘No, no, no, I’m not trying to be rude, I’m asking for future reference.’"
De Beer is not only trying to blend into a locker room of 89 other players with lifetimes of experience playing the sport, but also crack the roster of a team in a league that rejects even some of its most polished prospects.
That is a tall task for someone whose exposure in South Africa to football consisted of occasionally playing the Madden video game and watching some games on television.
"I’m like, 'What the hell is going on here?'" de Beer said. "I’m like, ‘Oh, he caught the ball, that’s cool.’ Throw a flag, ‘What’s that flag for? What did he do?’ It was very difficult to watch just because I didn’t understand anything."
What de Beer did understand were two sports in particular -- rugby and the discus throw. He played both at his high school, Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool, and emerged on the international scene by setting national-record U-16 and U-18 discus throws and winning a bronze medal at the 2012 IAAF World Junior Championships in Spain.
His performance caught the eyes of major NCAA track and field programs, but de Beer wanted more of a challenge than what was familiar to him. After reading a story about Estonian discus thrower Margus Hunt, who became a second-round pick of the Cincinnati Bengals in 2013 and now plays defensive tackle for the Indianapolis Colts, de Beer wanted to explore the possibility of football.
Shown at age 17 at the IAAF World Youth Championships in France, Gerhard de Beer held South Africa national boys under-16 and under-18 records in the discus. Stu Forster/Getty Images
One option was SMU, where Hunt played football and de Beer's cousin participated in track and field. But de Beer preferred the track and field program at Arizona, whose then-football coach Rich Rodriguez granted the South African's wish to play football -- a chance almost no other college program was willing to take.
The learning curve was monumentally steep, starting with de Beer figuring out how to wear shoulder pads and where to line up on the field. Tried by coaches first as a defensive lineman and later as a tight end, de Beer had to learn "blocking the corner" meant blocking the cornerback, and not the corner of the end zone.
After redshirting his first year and spending 2014 on the scout team, de Beer saw the field in 2015 by starting four games at guard. He moved to right tackle for his final two seasons, starting 10 games last season and catching the eye of Bills scouts with his work ethic.
Arizona's discus-throwing wanna-be punter Gerhard de Beer is the typical fish-out-of-water story. Just your average South African, world-class discus thrower who's 6-foot-7, never played football before, and, oh yeah, wants to try kicking, writes Kyle Bonagura.
"In college, the information we’ve gotten was that he was out there after practice every day working on his craft," McDermott said. "Here [in Buffalo], with what time we’re allowed, [it has been] no different."
If de Beer is able to stick on the Bills' 53-man roster or practice squad after training camp, which begins July 26, then McDermott can check the box of emergency punter, too.
"With rugby, I can kick a ball pretty good," de Beer said. "I was out there punting for Arizona. My freshman year, I remember I got out there. I said, ‘Hey coach, I can punt.’ He said, ‘You can?’ I said, ‘Yeah, I can kick a little.’ So they decided to give me some shoes after practice. Different from the lineman cleats, because that ball ain’t coming off of there. I booted one 75 yards."
And if de Beer's experiment playing football does not work out?
"My argument is that I can always try out football and -- knock on wood -- not succeed at it," he said. "But I can pick up a discus, throw it far and draw some attention again.
"But if I leave football for track, I can never come back to football. There are very few guys -- a handful of guys -- that go out of the league for a year and come back in and are successful at it. Just one year. Never mind a whole track and field career. So that’s why football is very important for me right now."LAKE FOREST, Ill. -- As he strolled into the tiny, dimly lit, all-brick restaurant 10 years ago, Matt Nagy had one goal: to put football in his past. But little did he know his three-hour dinner meeting would circuitously lead to the exact opposite. And the stranger he was about to meet he would one day refer to as his "angel." And it would all happen against the longest of odds.
"That word ‘angel’ is more than a little humbling," says Larry Wisdom, the man at the other end of the table that night in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. "It’s embarrassing. I had no intention of hiring him. Ten percent chance? Maybe? And that’s being generous. There’s no rewriting history here."
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
Instead, there is the unlikely tale of a man who was unemployed, out of football and desperately seeking a job in new home sales becoming the driving force behind the resurrection of one of the NFL’s most storied franchises. In two seasons with the Chicago Bears, former coach Marc Trestman won 13 games. In three years John Fox won 14 games. Matt Nagy has won 12 games and an NFC North championship in his first year. And the season isn’t over.
On Sunday, Nagy’s Bears will host the defending Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles in the opening round of the NFL playoffs. Ten years ago Nagy tried to quit football. He failed. Now he’s the favorite to win the NFL’s Coach of the Year award and has a football-crazed city dreaming of the most improbable of turnarounds -- from football laughingstock to Super Bowl champions.
"This is a great story what’s going on. Worst to first is hard. It’s hard to do," says ESPN NFL analyst Louis Riddick, who worked with Nagy in Philadelphia and has picked the Bears to go to the Super Bowl. "This is a special, special season for this football team.
"I knew Matt would be good, with the potential to be great. But I didn’t know he’d be this good, this quickly."
Dinner with Nagy? 'Hell no'
From left, Bears general manager Ryan Pace, Larry Wisdom, Matt Nagy and Larry's son Tony Wisdom pose for a photo at Halas Hall. Courtesy of Larry Wisdom
Fifty-one weeks ago, on a sunny but biting-cold winter afternoon, Nagy stepped to the podium at Halas Hall and officially took the reins as the 16th head coach of the Bears. He spent the first five minutes of his introductory news conference rattling off the names of family, friends, coaches and teammates who helped him reach the pinnacle of football coaching. There was of course his wife, Stacey, and their four boys. His high school and college coaches. Quarterback Alex Smith, with whom he worked closely in Kansas City. And a name few had ever heard of.
"Larry Wisdom," Nagy said that day. "A guy nobody in here knows. He persuaded me to live that dream. I’m living the dream. And Larry, the dream came true."
Somewhere back on the East Coast, Wisdom was chuckling. If he would have had his way, he and Nagy never would have even met. Back in the fall of 2008, as Wisdom cranked bench press sets at 4:30 in the morning, his personal trainer constantly badgered him about meeting his friend Matt Nagy about a potential job.
Nagy grew up dreaming of playing quarterback in the NFL. But after a successful high school career at Mannheim Central in eastern Pennsylvania, he didn’t receive a Division I-A scholarship offer. He ended up at Delaware, where he broke more than 20 passing records. But after graduating in 2000, he went undrafted. His NFL dream officially died after a free-agent tryout with the Green Bay Packers on Sept. 11, 2001. He joined the Arena League, where he threw for more than 18,000 yards and 374 touchdowns in six seasons. But after the 2008 season, the recession caused the league to fold.
At 30 years old, with a wife, two kids, two more on the way and a mortgage, Nagy needed more than just a job. He needed a new career.
"That was such a challenging time for me financially and emotionally," Nagy says.
But Wisdom, the president of a new home construction company, was fighting to save the employees he already had, not add new ones.
"This was a home-building operation. Not a real estate firm," Wisdom says. "People’s lives were at stake. Builders are going bankrupt. Companies are failing. And I’m going to meet someone with no experience about a job? It didn’t make sense."
Matt Nagy threw for more than 18,000 yards and 374 touchdowns in six Arena Football League seasons. John David Mercer/USA TODAY Sports
But Wisdom’s trainer, Steve Saunders, now the strength and conditioning coordinator for the Baltimore Ravens, wouldn’t quit. Saunders worked with Nagy when the quarterback tore his ACL in 2003. He knew the family. The work ethic. The drive. So every time Wisdom came in to train, Saunders brought up Nagy. Eventually the executive caved, if for no other reason than to stop the pestering.
"I said, 'All right. I’ll talk with him,'" Wisdom says. "'Have him give me a call.' And Steve goes, 'Great. You’ll have dinner with him.' I said, 'Hell no.'"
Nagy's pitch
Ten minutes into that dinner, Wisdom realized this was far more than a favor for a friend. Wisdom found Nagy authentic. Personable. Smart. Confident. He loved his communication skills. And he was drawn to his sense of humility and coachability. "All the things people love about him in Chicago came across that night," Wisdom said.
After three hours of conversation, Wisdom got to the point.
"I said to him, 'You’re asking me for a role in which you have absolutely no experience,'" Wisdom says. "'A role that hundreds of other people would want. How can you possibly make the case that it would make sense for me to hire you?'"
"For [Larry] to jump into my life and take care of me the way he did ... it was just special. Sometimes I believe people are brought into your life for certain reasons and he did that. He took care of me." Matt Nagy
Nagy didn’t flinch. He promised to outwork and outhustle anyone in the company. He told Wisdom he’d do everything he could to learn, sell and eventually become one of Keystone Custom Homes' leaders. Wisdom liked everything he heard, but worried about Nagy returning to football. His passion for the game was obvious. But Nagy promised his playing days were in the past. He talked it over with Stacey and they agreed this was the best move for his family: to build a successful business career and volunteer as a coach on the side.
After two more meetings, Wisdom offered Nagy the only position he could, given Nagy’s lack of experience: a commission-based sales job. But with a growing family at home, Nagy needed a consistent income. He negotiated a salary of $100,000 a year, no commission. Wisdom agreed.
"It was instinct and guts, not exactly good business," Wisdom says. "I was building for now and the future and that’s why I was willing to take the risk. I believed in Matt and what he could do for our company long-term."
Says Nagy: "For [Larry] to jump into my life and take care of me the way he did ... it was just special. Sometimes I believe people are brought into your life for certain reasons and he did that. He took care of me."
Football comes calling
Nagy spent his first four months on the job learning everything he could about the Keystone Custom Homes operation. In June 2009 he was finally able to represent the company on the sales floor. And in four weeks, amid one of the worst real estate slumps in 50 years, Nagy managed to sell six homes.
Andy Reid, right, greeting Nagy during a preseason game in August, gave the future Bears coach his first full-time coaching job in the NFL as an assistant with the Eagles. Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
"I began to see this vision I had for Matt’s potential starting to come true," Wisdom says.
But a month later, football came calling again. One of Nagy’s Delaware teammates, Brett Veach, was working with the Philadelphia Eagles and invited Nagy to spend three weeks as a coaching intern during training camp. Nagy had interned with the Eagles the summer before, but now life was different. He was a few months into a promising new career. He had promised he was done with football. How could he ask for three weeks off? Veach reminded Nagy of the ramifications of saying no. "Out of sight, out of mind," he explained.
"I always looked at him as a leader and a guy who had great ability to communicate and deliver a message," said Veach, now general manager of the Kansas City Chiefs. "He was one of those guys who instantly popped into my mind, knowing him as a leader, competitive, and a player, that he would be able to transition those skills over to the coaching side."
2018 NFL Playoffs Coverage From the wild-card round through Super Bowl LIII, ESPN.com has you covered.
• Full schedule, news, notes »
More NFL coverage »
Nagy called Wisdom, explained the opportunity and apologized for even bringing it up. He made it clear that if Wisdom didn’t want him to go or if it would in any way jeopardize his standing with the company, Nagy would say no. Family was the priority.
Wisdom instead said yes.
"I saw it as a business development exercise," Wisdom says. "I figured he would come back and be on fire selling homes. I told him to go and get everything out of it that he could and when it was over come back here and get back to work."
Nagy did just that, with an asterisk. When quarterback Kevin Kolb sprained a ligament in his knee in training camp, the Eagles quickly signed Nagy to their 80-man roster. Opposing teams cried foul, insisting Philadelphia was roster-stashing by signing a coaching intern who had attended meetings and thrown passes during training camp drills. A day after Nagy signed, his contract was nixed. And when his internship ended, he was back selling homes.
"And never for a second did I have the thought it would happen again," Wisdom says.
'Go chase your dream'
Eight months later, Nagy sat in his office in the converted garage of a spec home working on some closing papers for a sale when his cellphone rang. The area code read 215, Philadelphia. On the other line was Andy Reid, offering a full-time job as a coach’s assistant with the Eagles for $45,000 a year. It was a huge pay cut. Mostly grunt work. But he’d get his foot in the door. Reid told Nagy to talk it over with Stacey. That talk lasted two minutes. Before Nagy could accept, there was a phone call he had to make.
It was a little after 10:30 at night when Wisdom’s cellphone rang during a late dinner. He saw Nagy’s number and assumed there was an issue with a customer. Wisdom stepped out of the restaurant two blocks from his home. As Wisdom listened to Nagy explain the opportunity with the Eagles, he could sense the uneasiness in his voice.
Larry Wisdom and Matt Nagy joke around during Wisdom's visit to Halas Hall in May. Courtesy of Larry Wisdom
"He said something about not wanting to let me down," Wisdom says. "He was uncomfortable with breaking the commitment he had made. I told him, 'Matt, you did the integrity thing. You were straightforward and honest with me. There’s something bigger going on here. Go chase your dream. Neither one of us knows where it’s going to lead. Go chase your dream.'"
Nagy took the pay cut and bet on himself. For a year he woke up at 3:30 in the morning and drove 100 miles each way from Lancaster to Philly. Some nights he would just sleep in the Eagles offices. He tried to soak up everything he could from Reid and the entire Philadelphia operation.
"He did a lot of the dirty work and the grunt work for Andy," says Riddick, whose office was just down the hall from Nagy. "I sat in on a lot of game plan meetings. He’d come ask me a lot of things that I said I saw versus what he saw. I knew he had a great football mind."
Says Nagy: "I was the assistant to the assistant. Once I got in the door I knew I would make it. If you’re given a chance and you’re driven and obsessed and consumed when given the opportunity to prove people right, the sky is the limit."
Each step along the way, Nagy followed in the footsteps of Doug Pederson, whom he will match up against on Sunday. In 2010, when Reid promoted Pederson to quarterbacks coach with the Eagles, Nagy bumped up to quality control coach. When Pederson became the offensive coordinator in Kansas City, Nagy moved up to quarterbacks coach. When Pederson took the Eagles' head job in 2016, Reid promoted Nagy to offensive coordinator with the Chiefs.
“It was easy for Matt to climb the ladder,” Veach says. “He came in and quickly gained the trust of not only the players but the coaches.”
Two seasons after becoming Reid’s offensive coordinator in Kansas City, Nagy became head coach of the Bears. The journey from new home salesman to NFL head coach was complete.
"He was uncomfortable with breaking the commitment he had made. I told him, 'Matt, you did the integrity thing. You were straightforward and honest with me. There's something bigger going on here. Go chase your dream. Neither one of us know where it's going to lead.'" Larry Wisdom
“Wow,” Veach says. “When you phrase it that way, it’s kind of silly. But with Matt ... I don’t think there’s anything from a talent or coaching standpoint that would’ve held him back. It was just a matter of him getting an opportunity to fulfill his dream. I think the sky is the limit for him.”
Says Nagy: “If you were to say to me 10 years ago that you would be given these opportunities what would you do with them, I would tell you I’d be right here."
Nagy admitted this week that after the Eagles won the Super Bowl last year, he told Pederson at the NFL owners meetings this past offseason that he planned on following Pederson’s lead all the way to the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
“He probably doesn’t want to hear that right now, but I’m trying to stick on that path,” Nagy says.
A 'surreal' experience
This past May, 10 years after their first dinner in Pennsylvania, Matt Nagy and Larry Wisdom met each other at another restaurant, this time in Nagy’s new home of Chicago. The two stayed in touch over the years, with Nagy hosting Wisdom at occasional Eagles practices and Chiefs games. But this meeting was a bit extra special.
Wisdom grew up just outside Chicago, in a family full of die-hard Bears fans. He loved Ditka, tolerated Wannstedt, appreciated Lovie and lost hair over Trestman. Now his former employee, his friend, would be the one stomping along the Soldier Field sideline leading his favorite football team.
"It’s surreal," Wisdom says.
"For [Larry] to be a die-hard Bears fan just shows how crazy life is," Nagy added.
Bears fan Larry Wisdom believes Nagy is "wired to lead us" to a Super Bowl. "I believe in Matt now just like I did 10 years ago. And I can't wait to see what happens." Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
Wisdom hadn’t been waiting long when Nagy walked into the restaurant in May. He gave Nagy a hug and told him he had two things to get off his chest.
"I told him, 'One, you’re not all that,'" Wisdom laughed. "'You’re a work in progress. And two, when we sit down people’s heads are going to swivel and look our way. Somebody is going to ask for an autograph. Probably my autograph. Just deal with it. It comes with the territory. Just go with it and we can get through this dinner.'"
Over the span of a couple of hours, Nagy and Wisdom joked, laughed and reminisced. They talked about family and faith and Nagy’s ideas on how to build a winning culture with the Bears. And they reflected on the unlikely path that brought them to this point.
"It was a very serious agenda," Wisdom says sarcastically. "I had to give him all those trick plays."
The next day Nagy gave Wisdom a tour of Halas Hall. Since then, Wisdom has followed this Bears season as closely as any, keeping in touch with Nagy through texts along the way. And he can’t believe the Bears are three wins away from the Super Bowl -- thanks in large part to the man he met in Lancaster that night trying to put football in his past.
"I’m so excited for Matt, of course," Wisdom says. "But I’m just as excited as a Bears fan. We want a Super Bowl. And I know he is wired to lead us there. It won’t be because he’s waving a magic wand or calling the right plays. It’s about his leadership skills. Inner strength. And his ability to get the most out of the people around him. I believe in Matt now just like I did 10 years ago. And I can’t wait to see what happens."LAKE FOREST, Ill. -- As he strolled into the tiny, dimly lit, all-brick restaurant 10 years ago, Matt Nagy had one goal: to put football in his past. But little did he know his three-hour dinner meeting would circuitously lead to the exact opposite. And the stranger he was about to meet he would one day refer to as his "angel." And it would all happen against the longest of odds.
"That word ‘angel’ is more than a little humbling," says Larry Wisdom, the man at the other end of the table that night in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. "It’s embarrassing. I had no intention of hiring him. Ten percent chance? Maybe? And that’s being generous. There’s no rewriting history here."
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
Instead, there is the unlikely tale of a man who was unemployed, out of football and desperately seeking a job in new home sales becoming the driving force behind the resurrection of one of the NFL’s most storied franchises. In two seasons with the Chicago Bears, former coach Marc Trestman won 13 games. In three years John Fox won 14 games. Matt Nagy has won 12 games and an NFC North championship in his first year. And the season isn’t over.
On Sunday, Nagy’s Bears will host the defending Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles in the opening round of the NFL playoffs. Ten years ago Nagy tried to quit football. He failed. Now he’s the favorite to win the NFL’s Coach of the Year award and has a football-crazed city dreaming of the most improbable of turnarounds -- from football laughingstock to Super Bowl champions.
"This is a great story what’s going on. Worst to first is hard. It’s hard to do," says ESPN NFL analyst Louis Riddick, who worked with Nagy in Philadelphia and has picked the Bears to go to the Super Bowl. "This is a special, special season for this football team.
"I knew Matt would be good, with the potential to be great. But I didn’t know he’d be this good, this quickly."
Dinner with Nagy? 'Hell no'
From left, Bears general manager Ryan Pace, Larry Wisdom, Matt Nagy and Larry's son Tony Wisdom pose for a photo at Halas Hall. Courtesy of Larry Wisdom
Fifty-one weeks ago, on a sunny but biting-cold winter afternoon, Nagy stepped to the podium at Halas Hall and officially took the reins as the 16th head coach of the Bears. He spent the first five minutes of his introductory news conference rattling off the names of family, friends, coaches and teammates who helped him reach the pinnacle of football coaching. There was of course his wife, Stacey, and their four boys. His high school and college coaches. Quarterback Alex Smith, with whom he worked closely in Kansas City. And a name few had ever heard of.
"Larry Wisdom," Nagy said that day. "A guy nobody in here knows. He persuaded me to live that dream. I’m living the dream. And Larry, the dream came true."
Somewhere back on the East Coast, Wisdom was chuckling. If he would have had his way, he and Nagy never would have even met. Back in the fall of 2008, as Wisdom cranked bench press sets at 4:30 in the morning, his personal trainer constantly badgered him about meeting his friend Matt Nagy about a potential job.
Nagy grew up dreaming of playing quarterback in the NFL. But after a successful high school career at Mannheim Central in eastern Pennsylvania, he didn’t receive a Division I-A scholarship offer. He ended up at Delaware, where he broke more than 20 passing records. But after graduating in 2000, he went undrafted. His NFL dream officially died after a free-agent tryout with the Green Bay Packers on Sept. 11, 2001. He joined the Arena League, where he threw for more than 18,000 yards and 374 touchdowns in six seasons. But after the 2008 season, the recession caused the league to fold.
At 30 years old, with a wife, two kids, two more on the way and a mortgage, Nagy needed more than just a job. He needed a new career.
"That was such a challenging time for me financially and emotionally," Nagy says.
But Wisdom, the president of a new home construction company, was fighting to save the employees he already had, not add new ones.
"This was a home-building operation. Not a real estate firm," Wisdom says. "People’s lives were at stake. Builders are going bankrupt. Companies are failing. And I’m going to meet someone with no experience about a job? It didn’t make sense."
Matt Nagy threw for more than 18,000 yards and 374 touchdowns in six Arena Football League seasons. John David Mercer/USA TODAY Sports
But Wisdom’s trainer, Steve Saunders, now the strength and conditioning coordinator for the Baltimore Ravens, wouldn’t quit. Saunders worked with Nagy when the quarterback tore his ACL in 2003. He knew the family. The work ethic. The drive. So every time Wisdom came in to train, Saunders brought up Nagy. Eventually the executive caved, if for no other reason than to stop the pestering.
"I said, 'All right. I’ll talk with him,'" Wisdom says. "'Have him give me a call.' And Steve goes, 'Great. You’ll have dinner with him.' I said, 'Hell no.'"
Nagy's pitch
Ten minutes into that dinner, Wisdom realized this was far more than a favor for a friend. Wisdom found Nagy authentic. Personable. Smart. Confident. He loved his communication skills. And he was drawn to his sense of humility and coachability. "All the things people love about him in Chicago came across that night," Wisdom said.
After three hours of conversation, Wisdom got to the point.
"I said to him, 'You’re asking me for a role in which you have absolutely no experience,'" Wisdom says. "'A role that hundreds of other people would want. How can you possibly make the case that it would make sense for me to hire you?'"
"For [Larry] to jump into my life and take care of me the way he did ... it was just special. Sometimes I believe people are brought into your life for certain reasons and he did that. He took care of me." Matt Nagy
Nagy didn’t flinch. He promised to outwork and outhustle anyone in the company. He told Wisdom he’d do everything he could to learn, sell and eventually become one of Keystone Custom Homes' leaders. Wisdom liked everything he heard, but worried about Nagy returning to football. His passion for the game was obvious. But Nagy promised his playing days were in the past. He talked it over with Stacey and they agreed this was the best move for his family: to build a successful business career and volunteer as a coach on the side.
After two more meetings, Wisdom offered Nagy the only position he could, given Nagy’s lack of experience: a commission-based sales job. But with a growing family at home, Nagy needed a consistent income. He negotiated a salary of $100,000 a year, no commission. Wisdom agreed.
"It was instinct and guts, not exactly good business," Wisdom says. "I was building for now and the future and that’s why I was willing to take the risk. I believed in Matt and what he could do for our company long-term."
Says Nagy: "For [Larry] to jump into my life and take care of me the way he did ... it was just special. Sometimes I believe people are brought into your life for certain reasons and he did that. He took care of me."
Football comes calling
Nagy spent his first four months on the job learning everything he could about the Keystone Custom Homes operation. In June 2009 he was finally able to represent the company on the sales floor. And in four weeks, amid one of the worst real estate slumps in 50 years, Nagy managed to sell six homes.
Andy Reid, right, greeting Nagy during a preseason game in August, gave the future Bears coach his first full-time coaching job in the NFL as an assistant with the Eagles. Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
"I began to see this vision I had for Matt’s potential starting to come true," Wisdom says.
But a month later, football came calling again. One of Nagy’s Delaware teammates, Brett Veach, was working with the Philadelphia Eagles and invited Nagy to spend three weeks as a coaching intern during training camp. Nagy had interned with the Eagles the summer before, but now life was different. He was a few months into a promising new career. He had promised he was done with football. How could he ask for three weeks off? Veach reminded Nagy of the ramifications of saying no. "Out of sight, out of mind," he explained.
"I always looked at him as a leader and a guy who had great ability to communicate and deliver a message," said Veach, now general manager of the Kansas City Chiefs. "He was one of those guys who instantly popped into my mind, knowing him as a leader, competitive, and a player, that he would be able to transition those skills over to the coaching side."
2018 NFL Playoffs Coverage From the wild-card round through Super Bowl LIII, ESPN.com has you covered.
• Full schedule, news, notes »
More NFL coverage »
Nagy called Wisdom, explained the opportunity and apologized for even bringing it up. He made it clear that if Wisdom didn’t want him to go or if it would in any way jeopardize his standing with the company, Nagy would say no. Family was the priority.
Wisdom instead said yes.
"I saw it as a business development exercise," Wisdom says. "I figured he would come back and be on fire selling homes. I told him to go and get everything out of it that he could and when it was over come back here and get back to work."
Nagy did just that, with an asterisk. When quarterback Kevin Kolb sprained a ligament in his knee in training camp, the Eagles quickly signed Nagy to their 80-man roster. Opposing teams cried foul, insisting Philadelphia was roster-stashing by signing a coaching intern who had attended meetings and thrown passes during training camp drills. A day after Nagy signed, his contract was nixed. And when his internship ended, he was back selling homes.
"And never for a second did I have the thought it would happen again," Wisdom says.
'Go chase your dream'
Eight months later, Nagy sat in his office in the converted garage of a spec home working on some closing papers for a sale when his cellphone rang. The area code read 215, Philadelphia. On the other line was Andy Reid, offering a full-time job as a coach’s assistant with the Eagles for $45,000 a year. It was a huge pay cut. Mostly grunt work. But he’d get his foot in the door. Reid told Nagy to talk it over with Stacey. That talk lasted two minutes. Before Nagy could accept, there was a phone call he had to make.
It was a little after 10:30 at night when Wisdom’s cellphone rang during a late dinner. He saw Nagy’s number and assumed there was an issue with a customer. Wisdom stepped out of the restaurant two blocks from his home. As Wisdom listened to Nagy explain the opportunity with the Eagles, he could sense the uneasiness in his voice.
Larry Wisdom and Matt Nagy joke around during Wisdom's visit to Halas Hall in May. Courtesy of Larry Wisdom
"He said something about not wanting to let me down," Wisdom says. "He was uncomfortable with breaking the commitment he had made. I told him, 'Matt, you did the integrity thing. You were straightforward and honest with me. There’s something bigger going on here. Go chase your dream. Neither one of us knows where it’s going to lead. Go chase your dream.'"
Nagy took the pay cut and bet on himself. For a year he woke up at 3:30 in the morning and drove 100 miles each way from Lancaster to Philly. Some nights he would just sleep in the Eagles offices. He tried to soak up everything he could from Reid and the entire Philadelphia operation.
"He did a lot of the dirty work and the grunt work for Andy," says Riddick, whose office was just down the hall from Nagy. "I sat in on a lot of game plan meetings. He’d come ask me a lot of things that I said I saw versus what he saw. I knew he had a great football mind."
Says Nagy: "I was the assistant to the assistant. Once I got in the door I knew I would make it. If you’re given a chance and you’re driven and obsessed and consumed when given the opportunity to prove people right, the sky is the limit."
Each step along the way, Nagy followed in the footsteps of Doug Pederson, whom he will match up against on Sunday. In 2010, when Reid promoted Pederson to quarterbacks coach with the Eagles, Nagy bumped up to quality control coach. When Pederson became the offensive coordinator in Kansas City, Nagy moved up to quarterbacks coach. When Pederson took the Eagles' head job in 2016, Reid promoted Nagy to offensive coordinator with the Chiefs.
“It was easy for Matt to climb the ladder,” Veach says. “He came in and quickly gained the trust of not only the players but the coaches.”
Two seasons after becoming Reid’s offensive coordinator in Kansas City, Nagy became head coach of the Bears. The journey from new home salesman to NFL head coach was complete.
"He was uncomfortable with breaking the commitment he had made. I told him, 'Matt, you did the integrity thing. You were straightforward and honest with me. There's something bigger going on here. Go chase your dream. Neither one of us know where it's going to lead.'" Larry Wisdom
“Wow,” Veach says. “When you phrase it that way, it’s kind of silly. But with Matt ... I don’t think there’s anything from a talent or coaching standpoint that would’ve held him back. It was just a matter of him getting an opportunity to fulfill his dream. I think the sky is the limit for him.”
Says Nagy: “If you were to say to me 10 years ago that you would be given these opportunities what would you do with them, I would tell you I’d be right here."
Nagy admitted this week that after the Eagles won the Super Bowl last year, he told Pederson at the NFL owners meetings this past offseason that he planned on following Pederson’s lead all the way to the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
“He probably doesn’t want to hear that right now, but I’m trying to stick on that path,” Nagy says.
A 'surreal' experience
This past May, 10 years after their first dinner in Pennsylvania, Matt Nagy and Larry Wisdom met each other at another restaurant, this time in Nagy’s new home of Chicago. The two stayed in touch over the years, with Nagy hosting Wisdom at occasional Eagles practices and Chiefs games. But this meeting was a bit extra special.
Wisdom grew up just outside Chicago, in a family full of die-hard Bears fans. He loved Ditka, tolerated Wannstedt, appreciated Lovie and lost hair over Trestman. Now his former employee, his friend, would be the one stomping along the Soldier Field sideline leading his favorite football team.
"It’s surreal," Wisdom says.
"For [Larry] to be a die-hard Bears fan just shows how crazy life is," Nagy added.
Bears fan Larry Wisdom believes Nagy is "wired to lead us" to a Super Bowl. "I believe in Matt now just like I did 10 years ago. And I can't wait to see what happens." Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
Wisdom hadn’t been waiting long when Nagy walked into the restaurant in May. He gave Nagy a hug and told him he had two things to get off his chest.
"I told him, 'One, you’re not all that,'" Wisdom laughed. "'You’re a work in progress. And two, when we sit down people’s heads are going to swivel and look our way. Somebody is going to ask for an autograph. Probably my autograph. Just deal with it. It comes with the territory. Just go with it and we can get through this dinner.'"
Over the span of a couple of hours, Nagy and Wisdom joked, laughed and reminisced. They talked about family and faith and Nagy’s ideas on how to build a winning culture with the Bears. And they reflected on the unlikely path that brought them to this point.
"It was a very serious agenda," Wisdom says sarcastically. "I had to give him all those trick plays."
The next day Nagy gave Wisdom a tour of Halas Hall. Since then, Wisdom has followed this Bears season as closely as any, keeping in touch with Nagy through texts along the way. And he can’t believe the Bears are three wins away from the Super Bowl -- thanks in large part to the man he met in Lancaster that night trying to put football in his past.
"I’m so excited for Matt, of course," Wisdom says. "But I’m just as excited as a Bears fan. We want a Super Bowl. And I know he is wired to lead us there. It won’t be because he’s waving a magic wand or calling the right plays. It’s about his leadership skills. Inner strength. And his ability to get the most out of the people around him. I believe in Matt now just like I did 10 years ago. And I can’t wait to see what happens."GLENDALE, Ariz. -- If this was supposed to be a Super Bowl 50 preview, then buckle up. This is about to be a fun postseason.
In a game that had so many juicy storylines coming in -- the Bengals' prime-time woes (now 8-18 since 2003) and and the revenge nature of Carson Palmer's second game against his old team -- it was a last-second, game-winning field goal that did in the Cincinnati Bengals during their 34-31 loss at University of Phoenix Stadium on Sunday night.
While Andy Dalton always bears the brunt of the blame in the Bengals' prime-time defeats, this one certainly isn't on him. Blame a porous defense on the game's final drive, which put the Arizona Cardinals in position to kick the 32-yard field goal with two seconds remaining on the game clock. Only one minute and two seconds before, the Bengals had pushed through with a drive for the ages from Dalton that brought them from an 10-point fourth-quarter deficit into a late-game tie.
Drives like that one are what will be needed from Dalton as the Bengals move forward and try to rebound after a second straight disappointing loss.
Andy Dalton threw for 315 yards and two touchdowns in the Bengals' loss at Arizona. Joe Camporeale/USA TODAY Sports
What it means: The Bengals are now 8-2 and still very much in control of the AFC North. With the Pittsburgh Steelers off this week, they only lost a half-game in the standings. Cincinnati now has to quickly rebound next Sunday, when it hosts St. Louis at home. It will be the first time in three weeks the Bengals have played a game earlier than 7 p.m. ET.
What were they thinking? Although the Bengals ultimately scored on their first possession of the fourth quarter, there was a serious "what were they thinking?" moment when offensive coordinator Hue Jackson had receiver Mohamed Sanu line up behind center on a pivotal down with the game clock running down. Dalton had just been sacked for an 11-yard loss the play before, so the Bengals were facing a second-and-21. With the safeties dropping, Sanu would have had zones deep to throw into, but there was one problem: He couldn't get the play off before the clock ran down for a delay of game. It could have been a costly penalty. Two 10-yard-plus passes and a fourth-down conversion ultimately preceded Jeremy Hill's 1-yard touchdown run.
One reason to be excited: These two words have to make a Bengals fan smile these days: Geno Atkins. The Bengals defensive tackle has been playing well all season, but he really showed up Sunday night. He made his most visible contributions in the first half, with a sack and another tackle for loss. All night he put pressure on Palmer, making it slightly more difficult to regularly exploit weaknesses in the Bengals' hobbled secondary. Although Palmer still got his yards, he probably could have had even more had it not been for the pressure Atkins applied, and the subsequent response from defensive end Michael Johnson, who also was in Arizona's backfield often. Atkins finished with four tackles.
One reason to panic: You'll read a little more about it in the "Ouch" section, but it's clear that injuries are beginning to take their toll on the Bengals' defensive backfield. Those injuries certainly could make things challenging for Cincinnati as the season continues. Also of concern: The Bengals, injured or not, gave up a few long passes and were gashed for big plays in the secondary due to missed tackles.
Fantasy watch: While the Bengals still didn't get from from Jeremy Hill the type of performance they have spent all season waiting for, he did end up giving his fantasy owners something to cheer about. The second-year running back scored two touchdowns. The scores were a lot like others he has had this season -- they came from inside goal-line territory.
Ouch: Remember when the Bengals were fully healthy and had all members of their 53-man roster consistently practicing? Yeah, that's starting to seem like a long time ago. Just when things looked the most bleak for the Bengals' secondary after cornerback Adam Jones was announced inactive with a foot injury, Cincinnati lost two more defensive backs during the game. Jones' replacement, Darqueze Dennard, was run from the contest with a right shoulder injury he sustained while attempting to tackle Cardinals receiver John Brown in the end zone during a third-quarter touchdown pass. It was announced that he had X-rays, but no results were made available. Along with Dennard, backup safety Shawn Williams sustained a second-half ankle injury that forced him from the game. This will be an important week for the Bengals' secondary as it tries to get as many of the injured defensive backs at closer to full health.CINCINNATI -- Andy Dalton and A.J. Green have played side by side long enough to start feeling a little bit like the old men in the room.
Both came in together as rookies in 2011 and are now 30, old enough to get a coveted reserved parking spot at the Bengals facility. In the first two weeks of the season, they couldn't help but reminiscence a bit about past games and big plays they've made.
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
"To have a guy of his caliber for as long as we’ve been together -- it’s fun because we can talk about stuff that’s happened over the last eight years," Dalton said. "’Oh, hey, remember vs. this team, they played this look, or like that play I was saying last week (against the Colts) when he caught the touchdown, that diving catch, it reminded me a lot of that catch he had against St. Louis our rookie year. We’ve played in so many games together, we’ve worked together for so long, that we can talk through things quickly and easily."
Eight seasons in, and with two wins under their belt this year, their connection is perhaps stronger than it's ever been. And it just might be one of the most underrated connections in the NFL.
Dalton and Green rank fourth in active quarterback-pass catcher combinations with 56 touchdowns together, and second in quarterback-wide receiver combinations.
Phillip Rivers and Antonio Gates rank first with 87 touchdowns, followed by Tom Brady and Rob Gronkowski (76) and Ben Roethlisberger and Antonio Brown (60).
Green and Dalton moved up that list quickly on Thursday night after Green caught three passes for three touchdowns to give the Bengals a 21-0 lead in the second quarter against the Ravens. Green ultimately finished with five catches for 69 yards, and surprisingly had the first three-touchdown game of his career.
"I was looking at the stat line like ‘A.J. Green -- three catches, three touchdowns,’" said Bengals tight end C.J. Uzomah. "I was like, what in the world? Are you serious? We’re just having fun out there. We’re brothers man, we’re grinding and going through camp and it’s 95 degrees, feels like 110. … It’s fun to see all that hard work come together and us moving like a well-oiled machine and scoring in multiple ways."
With stats like that, it's easy to see why there wasn't a single frown to be found around the Bengals' locker room on Thursday night following their 34-23 win against the Ravens. Dre Kirkpatrick ran through the room yelling "2-0!" while Green and Dalton held court with the media for several minutes.
Andy Dalton and A.J. Green rank fourth in active quarterback-pass catcher combinations with 56 touchdowns together. Bryan Woolston/AP Photo
It was a complete 180 from the simmering anger that permeated the locker room one year prior after the Bengals fell to 0-2 and scored only nine points in the process. Even the normally taciturn Green was publicly frustrated with the playcalling. It’s possible that his words after a Week 2 loss to the Texans in some part led to the firing of offensive coordinator Ken Zampese the next morning.
There was nary a harsh ward to be found on Thursday. The Bengals have scored 68 points through two games in 2018, the second most through that period in team history. And a large part of that is due to Green, though even he would admit he didn’t have his best start after fumbling against the Colts and nearly fumbling early against the Ravens.
But as soon as Green got into a rhythm, the Ravens couldn’t figure out how to stop him. Green had three touchdowns to his credit less than 17 minutes into Thursday’s game, despite the Ravens' best efforts.
"Any adjustments when covering A.J. Green? We doubled him some, we rotated coverage to him some -- we did all that," Ravens coach John Harbaugh said. "Yeah, we had double coverage on the touchdown pass with No. 55 right underneath him and No. 25 was right on his hip, I think it was. He made so many great plays. He’s a great player."
By the time the Ravens had a handle on the Green situation, they were playing catchup.
"We were clicking on all cylinders," Green said. "Nothing special, we were just in a groove."
Through two games, Green now has 11 catches for 161 yards and four touchdowns. It’s the most touchdowns he’s ever had to start a season.
"A.J., he brings a workload that a lot of people in the locker room ... at least me, I try to base myself and try to compete with A.J. on the things that he do, whether it’s big plays or helping my teammates out there," said Bengals running back Joe Mixon.
Dalton certainly believes their connection is firing on all cylinders right now, as it has been since he lobbed a 38-yard pass into the end zone in the third quarter against the Colts in Week 1. Dalton knew that Green would get there in time to make the play work, just like he knew he could keep going to him on Thursday and Green would find a way to make the play.
Now Dalton just hopes this connection keeps rolling.
"He’s got four (touchdowns) now through two games," Dalton said. "Let’s keep that going."The girl was 17, a high school junior, when she stood up on May 8 at the open discussion fostered by the Cleveland Browns among high school students, members of the Cleveland Police Department and players and front office representatives of the team.
Why, Helen Greer-Garrett asked, was so much made of school shootings when she has lived with gun violence every day of her life?
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
"She went on to say that she's at a point in her life now where gunshots are common," said Dr. Terrance Menefee, the principal of John Adams High School in one of Cleveland's tougher areas. "She doesn't even duck anymore when she hears gunshots because it's so common."
Vince Montague, president of the Black Shield Police Association, a group of African-American police officers, teared up listening to Greer-Garrett at what the Browns called a Neighborhood and Equality Summit.
"She felt bad about the deaths -- don't misinterpret that," Montague said. "But she's seen people die. She's seen all kind of guns. Two of her friends were shot and killed."
Greer-Garrett concluded by asking a question: What can I do to help stop these shootings?
Her emphasis on positive change was the exact reason the Browns set up the summit. This was an effort by the team to bring law enforcement and the community together, and it started after players knelt in prayer during the national anthem before a preseason game in August 2017, a few days after white supremacists marched in Charlottesville, Virginia. Soon after that game, Browns players approached owners Jimmy and Dee Haslam to ask what they could do beyond kneeling to make a difference.
"The players were ambassadors back to the team, the officers were ambassadors back to our department," said Sergeant Jennifer Ciaccia, public information officer for the Cleveland Police Department, who attended the Summit. "They're not really protesting me and you, they're protesting civil injustices and things that everyone wants to be better. We don't like bad cops either. We don't like when things are not going well in the community. It's a matter of perspective and listening."
The team in Cleveland was not alone in this effort, as numerous NFL teams made significant voluntary efforts behind the scenes to go beyond taking a knee during the national anthem. Many NFL teams did work on their own to reach out in the community to bring active life to their political statements.
Here are a few of the examples of players and teams trying to make positive efforts in different ways:
Linebacker Jamie Collins participates with members of the Cleveland Police Department in the Browns Neighborhood Summit in April. Courtesy of Cleveland Browns
The Players Coalition
The NFL and its players formed the coalition, led by Malcolm Jenkins and Anquan Boldin. It focuses on social justice issues important to players, and the league has donated close to $89 million to fund its efforts. One emphasis: Let's Listen Together, an effort nationwide to improve police and community relations. -- Pat McManamon
Colin Kaepernick
Kaepernick was the first player to take a knee during the anthem. After his action drew notice and criticism, Kaepernick pledged and donated $1 million of his money to more than 30 organizations working in at-risk communities. Kaepernick also fully funded the Know Your Rights Camp campaign that held meetings to raise awareness about higher education, self-empowerment and instructions on how to interact with law enforcement. For his work, Kaepernick was awarded the Amnesty International Ambassador of Conscience Award for 2018. -- McManamon
The 49ers tried to increase focus on under-served communities after Kaepernick began his protest. On Sept. 8, 2016, CEO Jed York announced that the team would be donating $1 million to two Bay Area charities whose priority is "improving racial and economic inequality." In October of last year, the Niners announced that they were teaming with law enforcement groups from various parts of California and New York to advocate for "common sense legislation" to ban bump stocks and any other mechanism that allows for the conversion of semi-automatic weapons into automatic weapons, as well as armor-piercing bullets and gun silencers. The team's involvement with police on the initiative is believed to be the first of its kind to include a professional sports team. -- Nick Wagoner
In 2015, owner Stephen Ross created the Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality, or RISE, with the goal to harness the unifying power of sports to improve race relations and drive social progress. Through this relationship, the Dolphins conducted a series of events designed to bring the community, law enforcement and military together. Included was a Town Hall with community leaders, law enforcement and youth coaches; ride-alongs with North Miami and Broward County sheriffs; hosting a voter registration effort after a September 2017 practice; and a South Florida High School roundtable with players, law enforcement and students discussing topics from activism to building inclusive communities. In addition, the Dolphins' community mission is "Teamwork at Work." Its goal is to level the playing field through the power of teamwork to inspire a healthier, more educated and united South Florida community. The Dolphins believe it is important to be inclusive of the diversity and aware of the intersections that make up South Florida. "It's not about one group. Social justice doesn't have one face -- nor one race, gender, sexual orientation or identity. We embrace our role as leaders in South Florida and believe the Miami Dolphins can serve as an inspiring and uniting force in our community," said Jason Jenkins, the Dolphins' senior vice president of communications and community affairs. -- McManamon
The Falcons formed a 15-member player committee last October to promote social justice. Members include Julio Jones, Devonta Freeman, Mohamed Sanu, Ricardo Allen and Ben Garland, among others. With the backing of team owner Arthur Blank and support from coach Dan Quinn, the committee partnered with the Atlanta Police Foundation, the Boys and Girls Club of Metro Atlanta and Atlanta Habitat for Humanity to do police ride-alongs, co-mentor children, meet with advocacy groups and build homes in the community. "You see things from the cops' perspective and from the people's perspective, so it was really interesting and eye-opening for me," Garland, who is white, said about interacting within the inner-city of Atlanta during the police ride-along. Nose tackle Grady Jarrett -- who was one of two Falcons to take a knee during the national anthem last season, along with Dontari Poe, who now plays for the Panthers -- discussed his thoughts on the initiative as a whole. "As a team, we did something that was united for us," Jarrett said. "We're just trying to make an impact and a step in the right direction. I enjoyed being with the youth the most, more than anything. ... As long as you try to impact youth life, whether it's on social justice or whatever, it's always good." -- Vaughn McClure
The Eagles have been one of the NFL’s more active teams. Malcolm Jenkins was a co-founder (with Anquan Boldin) and is a driving force behind the Players Coalition. During the season, Jenkins went on a ride-along with Philadelphia police. In September, he brought Eagles owner Jeff Lurie and NFL commissioner Roger Goodell to a day-long series of meetings with other players, the Philadelphia Police Commissioner, representatives of grassroots activist groups and public defenders to discuss criminal justice issues and criminal justice reform. Chris Long donated his entire 2017 salary to charity, including scholarships to the University of Virginia, his alma mater, and to organizations that promote educational equality in the three cities he has played in (Philadelphia, Boston and St. Louis). In May, Long, Jenkins and safety Rodney McLeod met with a group of public defenders to discuss bail reform. -- McManamon
Safeties Devin McCourty and Duron Harmon, cornerback Jason McCourty, special-teams captain Matthew Slater and former special-teams standout Johnson Bademosi have been leading voices in the community through the Players Coalition and have received public support from owners Robert and Jonathan Kraft, who have attended events with them. Most recently, the McCourty twins, Harmon and Slater, moderated a debate between five of the six candidates in the Suffolk County district attorney race. As part of the debate, they asked questions about mandatory minimum sentences for drug crimes, discriminatory policing and mass incarceration rates among people of color. Said Slater of the crowd in attendance, "We're not trying to sway them one way or another. We want them to just be informed and educated so they can go to the polls and feel confident about the decisions they make." -- Mike Reiss
Browns players stand arm-in-arm with military and law enforcement personnel during the national anthem before their game on Sept. 10, 2017. Ken Blaze/USA TODAY Sports
Some Bills players demonstrated during the national anthem twice last season: in Week 3 in the wake of the president's comments and a smaller group again in Week 4. Among the players taking part in the Bills' initial demonstration was linebacker Lorenzo Alexander, a team captain and member of the NFLPA's executive committee. Alexander released a statement Oct. 16 announcing that some players would use their day off that week to participate in community events to turn their demonstrations into actions. Alexander was also among Bills players attempting to organize a meeting with local political leaders, though several of his teammates with the same aim -- including quarterback Tyrod Taylor, running back Mike Tolbert, wide receiver Jordan Matthews and cornerback Shareece Wright -- were not retained by the Bills this offseason. -- Mike Rodak
Last year, the Lions had players kneel in Weeks 3 and 4. Owner Martha Ford met with the players and told them she would give her backing -- and the organization's backing financially and otherwise -- to causes players decided on if they no longer knelt. The players spent a good portion of the season putting together their platform. At the league meetings in March, team president Rod Wood told reporters that the players chose to work with All-Pro Dad and Golden Tate's Golden Future Foundation, which works with veterans. Lions players have also had meetings with law enforcement officials. Whether this will continue is unclear, as the coaching staff has changed since last season. At the same league meetings, Wood told the Detroit Free Press that the club gave "a significant amount" of money to the charities but wouldn't say how much. Individual players have also taken up their own causes, including Ameer Abdullah working on fundraisers to combat Flint's water crisis. Last December, former Lions Anquan Boldin, DeAndre Levy and Don Carey went on a "Listen and Learn" tour in Detroit to learn about bail and jail sentence reform. During the 2016 season, Glover Quin went to Capitol Hill with Boldin for a series of meetings on social justice reform. -- Michael Rothstein
Last fall, the Seahawks launched a players' fund aimed at promoting equality and justice through education and leadership programs. Wide receiver Doug Baldwin, one of the players who spearheaded the fund, said it "gives us an opportunity to move the conversation off the field and actually into our communities and [allows] fans and people outside of this building to actually interact, know what we're doing, know what we've been trying to accomplish and actually take part in doing it with us." The Seahawks Players Equality & Justice for All Action Fund has raised around $1 million to date, according to the team. Baldwin, a member of the Players Coalition, has met with various lawmakers and law enforcement agencies in an effort to enact police reform. The son of a former Florida police officer, Baldwin spoke in front of the Washington State Legislature in February in support of Initiative 940, which, among other things, would require law enforcement to receive violence de-escalation training and change the standards for use of deadly force. -- Brady Henderson
Last December, a few players (Kelvin Beachum, Demario Davis and Josh McCown) were joined by owner Christopher Johnson at the Bronx defenders, a public advocacy group. They spent all day there, including Johnson, learning about the criminal justice system. -- Rich Cimini
Chargers owner Dean Spanos symbolically stood arm-and-arm with players before a Week 3 contest against the Kansas City Chiefs after President Donald Trump's comments about the NFL. Spanos turned that act into action last month, with the Chargers implementing a social justice initiative in partnership with the city of Los Angeles along with local Boys and Girls Clubs in Los Angeles. The Chargers made a three-year, $1.2 million investment in the Summer Night Lights program, which helps keep city parks open late at night to create a safer environment for inner-city kids. Also, the franchise will make a six-figure investment in the Boys and Girls Clubs' STEM (Science, technology, engineering and math) program. "I thought the way we handled that last year was pretty dang good," Chargers coach Anthony Lynn said, when asked about his team's response to the National Anthem issue. "Our organization has stepped up and created different platforms for players in the community." -- Eric D. Williams
Malcolm Jenkins and Anquan Boldin spoke at a congressional forum in March 2017 about improving relationships between minority communities and the police as well as supporting re-entry programs for inmates. Tasos Katopodis for The Undefeated
In Cleveland, the team invited police, firefighters and other first responders to run on the field with them before the season opener and to link arms during the anthem. Players went on ride-alongs with Cleveland police. They held one Neighborhood Summit in October and another in April. They also held an Equality Summit during the offseason, in which community leaders were brought in to talk to interested players about positive ways they could use their platforms.
Finally, the Haslams submitted written testimony on a state bill related to sentencing reforms.
One of the speakers at the Equality Summit was Ruel Sailor, who was recently released after spending 15 years in jail for a murder he did not commit.
"I was highly amazed that they would want a guy like me from the streets to come in there and speak with athletes," Sailor said. "I'm fully on board, though. I was given a second chance. So it's my duty to make a difference with this second chance."
Montague, with the Black Shield, said he has taken some of the ideas he has heard to the Department of Justice. Sergeant Jennifer Ciaccia, public information officer for the Cleveland police, said she saw officers and players exchanging numbers and developing personal relationships.
"The most important thing was that this was not a one-and-done," Ciaccia said. "Coming back the second time, you could really feel in the room that we were making some interesting connections. That has to be something that forms organically, right?"
Everyone involved, including the Browns, wants the program with the students to continue and grow.
"After the summit," Montague said, "the crime rate went down with the youth in that area. It was a small percentage, but it did go down as far as gang violence and gun violence in that area.
"If it stops one person from dying, it was beneficial."
As for Greer-Garrett, there were hugs and words of support from the police and players, one of whom empathized completely with her words.
"I understood what she was talking about," linebacker Chris Kirksey said, "because I grew up in the same kind of environment."CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- It was months before LeBron James made the chase-down block he’d later call the “defining play” of his career. And well before Kyrie Irving hit the 3-pointer over Steph Curry that would be dubbed the biggest shot in NBA history by the Wall Street Journal. And even prior to the Cleveland Cavaliers starting off their playoff run by going 10-0 en route to the first championship in franchise history.
Yes, before all that glory, the Cavs went through a stretch in late March of last season when they lost three out of six games -- including a particularly embarrassing 104-95 loss at the hands of the Brooklyn Nets -- and Irving responded by declaring that all was just fine in The Land.
“Everything surrounding our team, it’s just crazy to think that we're still in first place and we're still the team to beat, honestly,” Irving said at the time. “Regardless of what anybody else says of what we need and what we don't need and what we need to get better at ... I feel like we're the team to beat ... I have a lot more confidence than I think anyone realizes in our team and what's going on in our locker room.”
However foolhardy his statement might have seemed at the time, Cleveland’s ensuing charge proved Irving to be prophetic.
Kyrie Irving finished Friday's game with 26 points and seven assists, extending his streak of games with 20 points or more to a career-best 20. Kent Smith/NBAE via Getty Images
And here the Cavs found themselves in March a year later -- losers of six of their last 10 games prior to Friday’s 112-105 breakthrough against the Charlotte Hornets -- with things seemingly going sideways again following a particularly embarrassing loss to the Denver Nuggets this week. And Irving came in with the fire extinguisher once again.
“It just echoes around the same statement of kind of let the world go crazy, and then we figure it out internally and we go from there,” Irving told ESPN on Friday. “That’s really all it comes down to: not letting anyone else dictate what are the things that we need to do and improve on. And then going out and just doing it.
“With us, we have a very close-knit group, a great culture, and we’ve just got to stick to it and understand that when it all comes down to it, as professionals we’ve got to raise our play and just become better. But every journey is different. This team’s run [leading up to the playoffs] and season have been totally different. It’s shaping out to be different, and it will continue to be. But we’ve just got to see where the answer lies and just go find it.”
What the Cavaliers found Friday was an early seven-point deficit to the plucky Hornets that Irving cut down by sparking a quick 5-0 run -- assisting on an Iman Shumpert jumper and hitting a 3 of his own -- to settle the game down and let Cleveland climb back in it.
Irving finished with 26 points and seven assists, extending his streak of games with at least 20 points to a career-best 20. Over that stretch, while Cleveland has taken its lumps, Irving has taken his game to another level -- 28.6 points and 5.6 assists on 49.4 percent from the floor, 40.1 percent from deep and 93.4 percent from the line.
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS Check out the team site for more game coverage CHARLOTTE HORNETS Check out the team site for more game coverage
While the outside world, as Irving refers to it (we’ll refrain from making a flat-world joke), lost its mind over Cleveland looking ragged with the playoffs approaching, he kept believing.
Why?
“Just reality,” Irving told ESPN. “A realization that putting this team together, it’s not going to come together as fast as everyone thinks it is. We have a lot of pieces. We have a lot of talent. We’re probably the most talented team in the league, by far, with just the pieces that we have.
“But it takes a lot more to integrate players, integrate plays, schemes and everything else than just us being on the road together and not necessarily having all the practice time. But practice is very valuable to us, and when we get a chance to be very detailed, we’re a better team. So until then, we’re just going to continue to try to learn on the run and be there for one another and just be consummate professionals.”
A game after allowing Denver to shoot 53.1 percent from the floor and 42.3 percent from 3, Cleveland held Charlotte to 42.2 percent from the floor and 26.3 percent from 3. Sure, the Hornets are a lesser opponent than the Nuggets. But it was a professional response, as Irving hinted it would be.
With that in mind, his reaction to Cavs coach Tyronn Lue’s idea that his team is being pushed by the Boston Celtics, who are just a game behind Cleveland for the No. 1 spot in the East, was predictably defiant.
“Obviously you have to pay attention to what’s going on out there, especially in the standings, but our focus has always been internally, and what we have to fix internally,” Irving said. “No disrespect to any other team in the league, but when we’re playing at a high level, when we’re focused and we’re dialed in, we’re a tough team to beat. So we’ve just got to come in with an even better focus.
“Tonight wasn’t even our highest focus. We’re gearing up for the playoffs, but we’re not near the kind of playoff atmosphere for us right now. But we’re getting there. And I’m happy with it.”
And Cavs fans will be overjoyed in a few months if his confidence proves to be well-placed.FRISCO, Texas -- If the Dallas Cowboys want to know about the health of Cincinnati Bengals tight end Tyler Eifert, they might want to check with his brother in-law. He just happens to be the Cowboys All-Pro right guard Zack Martin.
Martin married Eifert's sister, Morgan, in July.
Eifert has yet to play this season because of an ankle injury suffered at the Pro Bowl where he was Martin's teammate. The hope was he could potentially play Sunday but he suffered a back injury that kept him out of Wednesday's practice.
“No, she's not conflicted,” Martin said of Sunday's game at AT&T Stadium between the Cowboys and Bengals. “No.”
Martin and Eifert were roommates during their time at Notre Dame. It wasn't until their junior years that Martin was introduced to Eifert's sister.
“It'll be cool,” Martin said of the matchup. “I mean he plays offense. It'll be good to see him after the game but we obviously won't be lining up against each other.”
On a normal week, Martin has to buy only a handful of tickets for his parents or some college buddies. This week, his family and his wife's family, plus family friends will be at the game.
“It'll be a fun weekend,” Martin said.
Is Eifert at least helping defer some of the costs of the tickets?
“He should,” Martin said, “but, no, he's not.”
Martin was quick to deflect attention to the game, rather than the family affair.
“Yeah let's talk some football here,” Martin said.Field Yates could see Dez Bryant fitting in with Seattle or Arizona, if he wants to avoid a team rebuilding. (0:30)
Not long after learning he'd been cut by the Dallas Cowboys, wide receiver Dez Bryant sent out a tweet alerting potential suitors he is ready for the next step.
It didn't take long for players all over the league to start courting him. In 113 games over his eight seasons with the Cowboys, Bryant has caught 513 passes for 7,459 yards and a franchise-record 73 touchdown receptions.
If Bryant would like to stay in-state, safety Tyrann Mathieu would love to have him on the Houston Texans.
Come to Houston bro... @DezBryant — Tyrann Mathieu (@Mathieu_Era) April 13, 2018
How about in-division? The Philadelphia Eagles are coming off their first Super Bowl and tackle Haloti Ngata expressed his interest in seeing Bryant in green and white.
The Los Angeles Chargers, Detroit Lions, New York Jets, Jacksonville Jaguars and Buffalo Bills also had players weighing in.
Philip Rivers to @DezBryant for the score! — Russell Okung (@RussellOkung) April 13, 2018
Can we please get deZ .... please — Lesean McCoy (@CutonDime25) April 14, 2018
Bryant, who was sending up a tweet storm after his release, told the NFL Network he would love to stay in the NFC East so he could play the Cowboys twice a year.
"I won't say any teams, but being in the division, that's a huge possibility," Bryant said.
"That's something that I want. ... It's personal. Like I said, it's very personal. I already had a plan of training and getting my mind right. I just want to do it that much more."
If I didn't have my edge I got it now... I'm sorry they got to feel me it's personal... it's very personal — Dez Bryant (@DezBryant) April 13, 2018
Former Bengals receiver Chad Johnson threw his support behind Bryant.
Excited for Dez & him finding a team that will utilize him properly‼️ — Chad Johnson (@ochocinco) April 13, 2018
Since signing a five-year, $70 million contract in 2015, Bryant, 29, has not recorded more than 69 catches or 838 yards in a season. He missed time in 2015 with a broken foot and was bothered in 2016 with a tibial plateau fracture.Good to see a handful of Big 12 names called in the first round of the NFL draft on Thursday night.
What did I think? Glad you asked.
No surprises in the top two picks, which have both been essentially in the can for weeks. A nice touch by Robert Griffin III with the Redskins socks, but the slogan seemed a little cheesy. Cheesy or not, it's true. Griffin and 31 other gifted athletes caught their dreams on Thursday night. Congratulations to all. Reaching this point isn't easy, even for the most physically gifted players.
Well, it looked like Justin Blackmon would catch passes from one former Big 12 rival quarterback (Sam Bradford, St. Louis), but instead, he may do it for another. Former Missouri quarterback Blaine Gabbert gets a much-needed target, but he'll have to re-earn his job after an awful rookie season. St. Louis seemed like a better fit for Blackmon, rather than the Jaguars, but Blackmon's a true game-changer in my book. I think he'll have an effect wherever he goes.
Miami got its man in Ryan Tannehill. For as much talk as his inflated draft stock has gotten in the past few weeks, this looked pretty likely. Now, we'll see him in action. Like most others, I love Tannehill's upside. With some experience, he could be great. But he needs time. He wasn't outstanding in college, and he's obviously inexperienced at the quarterback position. There are zero questions from me about his physical skills, but I like the chances for his decision-making -- which had major, major issues in 2011 -- to improve if he gets lots of practice reps rather than being thrown in the fire immediately.
Sheesh, WVU. Y'all got on me for saying you wouldn't have a first-rounder in this post, but it was mostly a throwaway phrase, not a prediction. Most places I'd read had Bruce Irvin as a second- or third-rounder. I obviously didn't see him play much, and don't really have any thoughts on his play. But it's not like I was knocking it, either. I don't exactly keep track of the draft stock of players I never really saw play. Sorry about that. When it's things I'm truly covering, I pay attention. Well, most of the time, anyway. Or something. Either way, my mistake on that one.
What a great spot in Tennessee for Kendall Wright. I'm not sure I could ever see him carrying an NFL offense, but Wright's good enough to work underneath and stretch the field. I don't buy him much as a game-breaker against No. 1 corners all season, but in a supporting role? Huge, huge pickup for the Titans. As he matures, he may just prove himself as a true No. 1 receiver. His size is the biggest question for me, but he's got great hands and great speed. I just might draft Wright as a late-round sleeper in my fantasy draft next fall.Dallas Cowboys tight end Jason Witten was named the 2012 Walter Payton NFL Man of the Year award on Saturday night.
The award recognizes a players' off-the-field work in addition to what he does on-the-field.
"I am extremely flattered to be chosen the 2012 Walter Payton NFL Man of the Year from such an esteemed group of nominees," Witten said in a statement. "I work hard every day not only to be a success on the football field and a credit to my team -- but to be a good husband, father, son, grandson, teammate -- to be the kind of man that is as respected as Walter Payton was. Like others before me, I have a great opportunity as an NFL player to make a difference in the lives of others. It is honestly humbling to be recognized in such a manner for simply doing what I feel is right and human. I am fortunate to have a great support system in my family, the Dallas Cowboys and the NFL which allows me to make an impact in the communities and with people who love our game."
Jarrett and Brittney Payton, Walter Payton's children, will honor Witten before kickoff of Super Bowl XLVII between San Francisco and Baltimore.
Witten is involved in numerous non-profit organizations which include Jason Witten's SCORE Foundation, which helps people deal with domestic violence, and he's the Cowboys' spokesperson for NFL Play 60.
Witten also hosts a football camp at the University of Tennessee.
He becomes the third Cowboys player to win the Man of the Year award, which recently was renamed Walter Payton Man of the Year award after the late Chicago Bears running back.
Troy Aikman won it in 1997 and Roger Staubach picked it up in 1978.The decision came outside a Bloomfield Hills Best Buy. Gunther Cunningham went to purchase a new computer -- one with more power -- and on the drive, he came to his decision. After almost a half-century with the title of "coach" next to his name in some way, he was walking away.
Cunningham initially debated it three years ago after he transitioned from defensive coordinator to senior coaching assistant with the Detroit Lions. Around that time, he talked with Pro Football Focus (PFF) founder Neil Hornsby about hiring him. The money -- and a full-time role -- wasn’t available then.
The toll coaching takes on a body -- he hasn’t had a left ACL for decades and still has ligament injuries in both shoulders -- helped push him from the field. He’d spent his life with teams, from Oregon in college to a multitude of college and NFL teams. Jobs as head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs for two years, as defensive coordinator with the Raiders, Chiefs and Lions, and as an assistant head coach in Tennessee are among his many stops. So he wasn’t ready three years ago.
In that time, he dove further into advanced analytics -- something he discovered early in his Lions tenure thanks to then-staff counsel Jon Dykema, who introduced him to PFF. Always believing himself to be a coach on the cusp of innovation, he was an early analytics adopter and recently pushed for the Lions to add virtual reality to game preparation, which he said the team did not agree to.
That created a relationship with Hornsby that turned into a close friendship and now, a partnership as PFF's new director of football oversight. But what makes a man at age 70 take on something new? What makes him leave the part of his life that he knew for so long to head to something familiar yet unknown?
"I kept working and working and trying to do as good a job as I could, but I felt that [the Lions] had hired a bunch of people and set up a system and that my value wasn’t what I wanted it to be, although there was tremendous respect from Bob Quinn and Jim Caldwell and all of them," Cunningham told ESPN. "But I wasn’t very satisfied with it. So I was looking to do something. I wanted more of a challenge."
The timing worked. PFF was in the midst of shifting its staff to hire more coaches with NFL experience to help with the overall process. Cunningham, who has a deep understanding of advanced analytics, was the right fit.
When he made his decision, Cunningham initially thought he might leave to write a memoir. It’s been an interesting first seven decades. Born miles from the Dachau concentration camp in Germany in 1946, he moved to the United States as a 10-year-old, found football and spent his entire life with the game. He became a United States citizen in 2010. His life, though, has been rooted in hard football work.
The book would wait. Going into the Bloomfield Hills Best Buy, his favorite store -- a place he feels so at home in he likens it to being Norm from "Cheers" when he walks in -- would also wait. Instead, he spent time on the phone in the parking lot with Hornsby, excited about his new adventure.
"At the time, I wanted it to come together quicker than it did, sort of, 'yeah, let’s do this,'" Hornsby said. "But things take a little bit of time."
It took three weeks.
AP Photo/Cliff Schiappa
The change left Cunningham in a period of transition. He thought he might work from his home. That was vetoed by his family. He already spends a lot of time in his basement, working out daily in his gym and logging hours in the space his wife once suggested looked like a shrine to late Chiefs linebacker Derrick Thomas.
Cunningham found office space in the Andover Building in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, where he’ll work when he’s not traveling to Cincinnati. This sent him back to Best Buy for equipment when he starts April 10, including a new computer.
"Doing this office, I’m carrying televisions, bookshelves -- big ones -- like 100 pounds upstairs," Cunningham said. "I certainly don’t feel like I’m 70. My attitude is that I can bite the head off a bear, probably.
"So, yeah, I think a lot of life is like that."
Instead of fading into the anonymity of an NFL front office, he’s in the forefront again. This has re-energized him. His official title, director of football oversight, is nebulous. He’ll still be doing what he loves: analyzing numbers and trends to put in scouting reports for the 27 NFL teams that pay for PFF. He’ll evaluate players for the draft. He’ll also likely be responsible for part of the scouting report PFF gives to NBC for "Sunday Night Football" and Cris Collinsworth, one of the owners of PFF and a "Sunday Night Football" analyst.
Cunningham will instruct PFF's analysts on how to improve the grading process -- one Hornsby explains is only an on-field performance metric. He’ll be a layer of oversight for those grades and for the coaches' PFF outsources from the Pro Coach Network to aid in the grading process.
Cunningham will travel as PFF tries to sell its product to more colleges, explaining how he used the service and its benefits. At a coach, it was a baseline and time-saver for him and the Lions when they researched and prepped for the week.
Even though Hornsby and Cunningham don’t believe it’s necessary within football, Cunningham’s name, experience and pedigree also adds another layer of credibility with the public.
"From the outside-world standpoint, when consumers, when people go to our website, when players see our grades, you know, some love them because they are ranked high," Collinsworth said. "Some aren’t so crazy about them because they are ranked low. But when you’re going, Gunther Cunningham is the one that’s overseeing the defensive operation, it’s hard to say 'you guys don’t know what you’re talking about.' There’s a little bit about that."
The biggest difference for Cunningham is for the first time since he entered football, his success or failure in football won’t be tied to whether his team wins or loses. His success will be determined by his own work ethic, data analysis and management.
He’ll still root for teams he worked and played for, because you can’t teach a septuagenarian to completely abandon what he’s always been doing. The hours will be similar, too, because that’s how Cunningham is.
But the stress will be less, for him and his family. He recognizes that it hasn’t hit him yet that he won’t be with a football team for the first time in 48 years this season.
"It might, maybe as the season starts," Cunningham said. "But winning in the NFL is so tough that I don’t know how much I’ll miss it. I know my son said, 'Thank God the pressure is off.' He got sick during the weekends worrying about the team I was with winning and losing. That’s tough to hear.
"Now that he’s all excited about me taking this next step, that makes me feel good."
Cunningham doesn’t ever see himself fully retiring. A decade ago, the man who always wears all-black Nike figured he would coach until he died. The "monster about work ethic and hours and days" is all he’s known.
This is a bridge. He believes his input will have greater impact at PFF, and he doesn’t have to lock himself in his office to do work as he sometimes did with the Lions over the past three years after moving away from the field to avoid the perception of looking over the new coaching staff's shoulder.
Most of all, this keeps him involved in a game he believes gave him his life. Cunningham might no longer be with a team, but the kid from Germany who used football to find his way still thinks he’ll be just as involved as he ever was.
"I’m an NFLer for life -- that’s the best way I can say it. Until they put me in the ground, I’ll still be a part of the NFL," Cunningham said. "I’ll never be separated from that life, and I think PFF was the closest thing that I could find that would keep me involved in the NFL.
"I think -- you kind of asked me at the beginning of this -- and that’s the best way I could describe what I did and why I did it. I’m still a part of it."ALLEN PARK, Mich. -- Wide receiver Marvin Jones sat on a small stool in front of his stall in the Detroit Lions locker room rubbing a tool that sounded and looked like a power drill all over his body. The sound rose over Jones’ voice.
It looked weird, but Jones didn’t care. It felt good. It was the middle of August, and training camp had started causing the aches and bruises it always does. He wanted to stay fresh. So mid-conversation, he took the loud, hand-held, battery-powered machine, pressed the trigger and pushed.
The machine could be mistaken for a woodshop toy gone mad. It looked like a drill, but instead of tightening screws it was loosening muscles. This is the TheraGun -- a massager that is becoming increasingly popular in NFL locker rooms and across sports.
“Oh my gosh, it’s a lifesaver,” Jones said. “I can’t live without it anymore. It’s just, they have all this stuff, very expensive stuff that the trainers around the world, they have. It just gets circulation [going]. You have a knot, it’s a massager. It’s a stimulator. It’s everything to get your muscles performing.
“I use it before every practice, every game, stuff like that. When I use it, after I use it, I could go out there and just start running. I wish I had it early on.”
The TheraGun and machines like it -- TimTam is a competitor -- have turned into part of players’ prehab. Some even use it during games. Atlanta receiver Julio Jones was spotted using a TheraGun on his hamstrings between possessions during a game last year. Kyrie Irving had a trainer use it on his back and shoulders during last season's NBA Finals.
This doesn’t replace stretching or old-fashioned massage. It works on fascia and other soft tissue, loosening muscles. Marvin Jones estimates he uses it about 30 minutes a day, switching the different black-and-blue nodule pieces while reaching every part of his body.
“Gets you warmed up because before you start stretching your muscles are tight, so it just gets you nice and loose before you start stretching or doing any high-velocity exercises,” Arizona cornerback Patrick Peterson said. “We swear by it. You guys see it.
“We use it before games, during games, hell, just hanging out in the locker room. It’s just something that makes, I don’t know if it’s a psychological thing, but it actually makes us feel really good.”
Professional athletes are known for trying every conceivable treatment -- from cryotherapy to saltwater floating -- in their search for advantages in recovery and longevity. Some might have a placebo effect. This type of massage, though, is a variation of a tried-and-true method.
“I would say it’s different than a [traditional massage],” said Bengals quarterback Andy Dalton, who has not tried TheraGun but uses a device similar to it. “Obviously a normal massage they can feel exactly where you need it, and if you have a Gun you don’t exactly know that.”
* * *
TheraGun -- the name came out of a brainstorming session at a Marie Callender’s in Los Angeles -- exists because of its creator’s pain. Dr. Jason Wersland, a chiropractor, was riding his motorcycle on Interstate 10 in California. He was hit by a car and herniated a disk in his neck. He searched his own practice for pain relief and nothing worked.
He called his brother, also a chiropractor, and his brother told him about a really high-vibrating instrument. Wersland used it -- but it irritated the injury instead of helping it. Wersland grew up in a family of builders. So he tinkered.
“I was never thinking that I was ever going to sell this. That was never the plan,” Wersland said. “I wanted to be able to fix myself, so I went to my toolbox, got three or four tools and just kind of made this thing that was perfect for what I needed.”
Dr. Jason Wersland created the TheraGun to help relieve his own pain stemming from a herniated disk in his neck. Manuel Cedeno
The device he created -- a rudimentary version of the TheraGun -- had the same principles as the G2PRO he now sells for $599. He’d use it for 20 minutes, then 30 minutes, and then more. He got relief.
Life moved on. He forgot about it. Then he treated a bus driver in Los Angeles who had been in a collision with another bus. Nothing he was trying worked. He told the bus driver he had something insurance wouldn’t cover, but with the amount of therapy he was already paying for, it was worth a shot. It was the machine he created.
"It made me realize that, ‘Hey, man, maybe there’s something to this,'" Wersland said. “So I made 250 of my own units with my own money and bought these products and they were barbaric, noisy, plug-in. I sold them as fast as I could make them to chiropractors.
“I’m like, ‘Holy s---, this is cool.’ So I extended myself a little bit more, got 450, spent some time refining the product.”
The product became the hand-held, cordless “G1.” Even then, his plan was to sell to other chiropractors. As he worked on professional athletes, they waited for him to use the TheraGun after training sessions. As the athletes became frustrated by waiting, Wersland pulled 10 TheraGuns out of his car and laid them on the floor.
The athletes, he said, used them without instruction. Professionals understand their bodies better than the average athlete. And they didn’t shirk at the $600 cost. He had a new clientele.
“They know how much pressure to put on and this thing makes it super easy for them to do that,” Wersland said. “Once I realized that, I started giving them context and sold them the product -- like this is how you use it before, this is how you use it during, this is how you use it after.
“These are the things to expect from that. Go for it. Do your thing.”
It has led Wersland to expand. Earlier this year, he said he had almost 1,000 devices on backorder. He started marketing to college and high school teams along with everyday, average athletes. There are lofty plans.
“I want it to be like a pencil sharpener was in the '80s,” Wersland said. “My goal is that every house have one of these.”
* * *
Two years ago, Jaguars safety Peyton Thompson met Wersland while training in Southern California. He saw his machine.
It brought back memories of his childhood, when he joked about creating something similar. He never did. Thompson ordered around a dozen of them for the Jacksonville locker room. Thompson said using the hand-held massager -- either the TheraGun he once used or the TimTam he switched to because of its lower cost at $399.99 -- is “a necessity in my game.”
Dr. Jason Wersland uses the TheraGun on Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson. Manuel Cedeno
“There’s definitely some practices I go out there and I’m like, 'Damn, I should have hit the TheraGun. Damn,'" Thompson said. “But we sit in meetings for three hours straight and then go out to practice so really doing anything is better for warming your body up or helps you a little bit.
“But it definitely helps. I would be lying if I told you I didn’t need to remember to pack it for every trip. I got to make sure to pack it, for sure.”
The machines give athletes the ability to work on their bodies at any time, when anything crops up. That can eliminate more off-day training room visits or added massage appointments.
And in professions where the body is everything, keeping it in tune can be the literal difference between a short career and a long one.
“I was just telling Marvin, if it wasn’t for this TheraGun, boy, I would knock some years off my career,” Lions tight end Eric Ebron said. “But it’s really good. It’s really good.”
NFL Nation Cardinals reporter Josh Weinfuss, Bengals reporter Katherine Terrell and Jaguars reporter Michael DiRocco contributed to this report.Sterling Moore had his routine as he sat in the doctor’s office. His iPad loaded with too many episodes of "Martin" and the "Jamie Foxx Show" to count, the cornerback bided his time waiting for the medical staff.
He’d find himself in an NFL team’s facility -- sometimes he knew players there, sometimes not -- waiting some more. He stretched out with a foam roller and mentally went through his steps. Then he’d start watching again.
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
Whenever they were ready, Moore took the field with either a scouting assistant or a position coach for whatever team decided to fly him in and showed what he still can do. Sometimes that would be less than a half-hour, sometimes more. All for a chance at a new job.
This is life on the workout circuit for NFL free agents: A lot of travel, a lot of work and a lot of waiting for one sliver of a shot.
"It’s honestly a lot of waiting around," Moore said. "I mean, you’re either waiting at the hotel or at the facility waiting. Coaches and everybody has their meetings so you’re kind of waiting around for them having a break in their day to go through the workouts. Then a lot of car rides to hospitals and doctors and things like that.
"More waiting for them to see their patients and then squeeze us in. It’s a fluid situation a lot of the times."
The 28-year-old Moore, who has played for the Cowboys, Saints, Patriots and Bucs, has been one of those players whose name scrolls through Twitter in bunches almost every Monday and Tuesday during the NFL season. They are often clustered together, part of the endless transactional reporting of the league. These moves are different, though.
These are job interviews publicized, workouts known for the world as rookies and veterans try to latch back into the NFL. They may seem faceless from the transaction wire, but each one is a human story. Every name listed, from known former stars like Dez Bryant to unknown, undrafted rookies like Deontez Alexander are in search of the same thing: Employment.
"It’s nothing guaranteed, so it’s almost like you’re working out off of a prayer and a hope," said Jeremy Kerley, a veteran wide receiver who has been a free agent this season after being released by the Buffalo Bills in September. "And hopefully this workout is something serious and that they want you."
Waiting for an opportunity
Sterling Moore, a seven-year NFL veteran, has worked out for several teams this season. Stephen Lew/Icon Sportswire
The process itself can be somewhat stressful. Not because of the workout -- for most players, that’s the part they know. Everything else they do not. Each workout is different, although it usually combines some level of positional drills and, depending on the team, combine testing.
For instance, Kerley and Moore said they’ve been asked to (and don’t always agree to) run the 40-yard dash, something they haven’t done since they were rookies. Alexander, a rookie receiver from Franklin College, said half the teams he worked out for before signing with the Detroit Lions' practice squad last month asked him to run the 40.
Some workouts, depending on the team, are 45 minutes. Moore had one -- he declined to divulge the team -- lasting six drills for 12 minutes.
The workouts, more than anything else, create a ready list for teams unless there's an immediate positional need. Most visits are used to acquire updated medical information and to test physical fitness in drills that then offer comparisons to other free agents and players on the roster.
"It's really a necessity to complete and have a thorough ready list ready to go," said Randy Mueller, a former general manager with the Saints and Dolphins who is now the GM of the Salt Lake Stallions of the Alliance of American Football. "No pun intended."
Strategies differ in how teams bring in free agents. Some want masses of guys each week. Others are more selective based on potential needs being forecast. Toward the end of a season, workouts could be potential offseason future deal signings.
Meanwhile, all the players can do is wait. The four who ESPN spoke with all said they pay attention to, if not watch, games on Sundays. Between their families, friends and own viewing habits, they often receive information on which teams might have a need at their positions almost as soon as a player goes down. They never root for injury. But often the unfortunate leads to opportunity.
Some workouts are scheduled in advance -- Moore and Alexander said they learned days before a game that teams wanted them in the following week. Often calls come quick, at random and are immediate.
"What's going to happen is guys who overthink stuff are guys who are going to drive themselves crazy. You literally can't control it. What's going to happen is going to happen. All you can control is what you do." Kelvin Sheppard
By the time a workout request is made, a front office has a general idea of the player they are getting off film or older workouts. They could look at the free-agent landscape early in the year and become proactive.
"That might dictate the timing of getting guys in at specific positions," Mueller said. "For example, you might know out of training camp and after the final cuts are made that there's three linebackers that are out on the street and after that there's gonna be nothing. Let's get those guys in, let's size them up and find a way to get one before it's too late."
While the team often initiates the workout call, agents can do behind-the-scenes work beforehand, campaigning for their clients. If a player lands a job on a 53-man roster, that's possibly life-changing money for a client -- at minimum $28,235 per week of the season.
"I'm calling obvious situations. I'm calling not-so-obvious situations. I'm basically going to do everything I can," said longtime sports agent Chris Gittings. "That said, there's times where a team will call me out of the blue and when that happens, great. There's times where teams surprise me, I wouldn't think they are interested and all of a sudden they are because they are contemplating something that I didn't think of.
"So I don't wait around."
Teams are usually aware of who is available. Still, agents need to do their diligence. Maybe a team wasn't thinking of their player or that they weren't completely aware of a free agent's health status due to a prior injury.
The calls, when they do come, can alter plans. In late September, Moore planned to travel from his Dallas home to northern California for his dad’s birthday. His agent, David Canter, got a call from the New York Jets. They wanted to work him out. Moore visited the Jets instead of his dad.
"It definitely makes it difficult to plan stuff," Moore said.
For one workout this year, Kerley, 30, received the call while on his way to pick up his three kids from the Montessori Academy they attend. He had to ask the team if he could take a later flight because he had to arrange things before he left town.
Jeremy Kerley is an eight-year NFL veteran pondering his future and whether he should continue his attempts at trying to latch on with another team. Daniel Bartel/Icon Sportswire
It’s a tricky balance. With some players -- usually younger, single ones -- it’s easier to be ready at a moment’s notice. Teams understand there are lives involved beyond just training for a workout that may or may not lead to a full-time -- or even a one-week -- gig.
"They are considerate to the fact that you’re not sitting around just working out 24 hours a day just waiting on a phone call and now I’m ready to go on a flight like I got my bags packed," Kerley said. "Nah, they're considerate to a point that, 'Hey, I got to push the flight back a little bit because I’m doing this, I’m doing that.' 'Fine, we’ll handle it.'"
They also have to be flexible because there are times one team might want a player to visit while another team is working him out. That happened to Moore twice. In New York, the Cleveland Browns called. Canter spoke to the Jets and a scouting assistant drove him from the doctor’s office to the airport so he could make a flight to Cleveland for another workout.
While in Chicago, Moore got a call from his old team, the New Orleans Saints and flew directly there, a scheduling whirlwind.
Kerley and Moore experienced landing around midnight, reaching the hotel around 1 a.m. only to depart the hotel at 5:45 a.m. for the start of the day because most teams schedule workouts in the morning. All expenses, of course, paid for by the team bringing them in.
"You don’t hear about the quick turnaround for flights and medical and then the waiting around," Moore said. "So it’s been a learning process for that."
Pondering their futures
While waiting can be hard, there are also days and weeks when no calls come. The four players who have been on the circuit who spoke with ESPN all said they trained during the week to stay in shape, each with different strategies.
Veterans Moore and Kerley know how they want to take care of their bodies and their training regimens. Money isn't as big of a factor because of their time in the league already. Kerley has played in 99 NFL games over eight seasons and made over $11.6 million, according to Spotrac. Moore, undrafted out of SMU, has earned about $5.1 million over seven NFL seasons.
Alexander, the undrafted rookie who has yet to appear in an NFL game, spent every weekend in Indianapolis in an apartment he rented near his family.
Then on Monday -- or Tuesday or Wednesday, depending if he had tryouts -- Alexander drove to Louisville to work with his trainers at Corey Taylor Sports Performance. Instead of commuting daily on Interstate 65, Alexander stayed rent-free in the basement of one of his best friends' grandmother's homes. It was a way for him to save time and money while also being as little of a burden as possible.
Kelvin Sheppard signed with the Lions on Oct. 31 after spending last season on the Giants roster. Frank Jansky/Icon Sportswire
Alexander was signed to the Lions' practice squad on Nov. 30. He lasted a little over two weeks, getting released on Dec. 14. Earning a job, for him, meant a paycheck of at least $7,600 per week while he was on the practice squad.
Kerley spent most of his time with his family working to set up his post-football career. Over the past three years, even though he played, he thought about his future.
He used his free-agent time to launch DYM Denim, a jeans company. Always enamored with fashion, he worked on the project for three years and his time away from football gave him the chance to focus on it. The product launched in Arlington, Texas, earlier this month since he wasn't on a roster.
While he’d like to play, he’s comfortable with whatever happens.
"It’s bittersweet," Kerley said. "It’s unfortunate, but at the same time, it’s my future. You know, it gives me a chance to try and handle that and get that off the ground like I want to."
Kelvin Sheppard, who signed a veteran minimum deal with the Lions on Oct. 31, spent parts of the past two seasons as a free agent. Between training and working his investments, he coached defense for the Cooper City Colts, his 9-year-old son's football team. Like Kerley and Moore, he could afford to be smart with his decision, as he made over $7 million in his career before signing with Detroit. In a bit of fortuitous timing, he signed with the Lions the week after his son’s season ended. Returning to the league earned him a salary of $57,187.50 per week.
Between training, coaching and future planning, it gave guys options to keep their minds busy instead of worrying about finding an NFL gig all the time.
"What’s going to happen is guys who overthink stuff are guys who are going to drive themselves crazy," Sheppard said. "You literally can’t control it. What’s going to happen is going to happen. All you can control is what you do."
Sometimes that leads to jobs. Sometimes it doesn't.
Moore, who Canter said has been on six or seven workouts, has yet to land a job. Sometimes, knowing he's on a workout, friends would text him simply, "Update?" or ask if he was OK. He knew they meant well.
"When people are like, are you OK, I’m like, ‘Yeah, I didn’t get in a car accident. I didn’t get shot. I’m just fine,’" Moore said. "I hate people asking ‘Am I OK?’ Like I’ve gone missing or something. That’s probably the worst, like, ‘Are you OK?’
"I’m just fine, thanks."
No matter what happens down the road, he knows what he accomplished. He started 31 games in the NFL. But he gets the process. All he can do is sit, wait, keep busy and hope -- like players all over the country -- for the next opportunity.GREEN BAY, Wis. -- No one in the NFL had a more potent offense last season than the Green Bay Packers, and no one in the league retained more of its firepower, either.
That should bode well for the 2015 season.
According to ESPN Stats & Information, the Packers retained 95 percent of their offensive snaps played last season, when they led the NFL in scoring at 30.4 points per game.
Only four other teams topped the 90 percent retention rate on offense. They were: the Pittsburgh Steelers (94 percent), Carolina Panthers (92 percent), Cincinnati Bengals (91 percent) and Washington Redskins (91 percent).
By re-signing key free agents like receiver Randall Cobb and right tackle Bryan Bulaga, the Packers ensured that all of their losses on offense were players well down the depth chart.
Here's a look at the retention rate by position group on offense:
Quarterback
Retention rate : 94 percent
NFL rank : 21st
Key players lost: Backup Matt Flynn (67 total snaps)
Running back
Retention rate : 95 percent
NFL rank : Seventh
Key players lost: No. 3 halfback DuJuan Harris (51 total snaps)
Receiver
Retention rate : 93 percent
NFL rank : Ninth
Key players lost: No. 4 receiver Jarrett Boykin (238 total snaps)
Tight end
Retention rate : 94 percent
NFL rank : 15th
Key players lost: Backups Brandon Bostick (32 snaps) and Ryan Taylor (10 snaps)
Offensive line
Retention rate : 97 percent
NFL rank : Fifth
Key players lost: Backup tackle Derek Sherrod (140 snaps)
On the defensive side of the ball, the Packers' biggest losses came at linebacker and cornerback. As a unit, the Packers retained 76 percent of their defensive snaps from last season, which ranked tied for 13th in the league.
Here's a look at the retention rate by position group on defense:
Defensive line
Retention rate : 98 percent
NFL rank : Third
Key players lost: Backup defensive tackle Luther Robinson (65 snaps)
Linebackers
Retention rate : 65 percent
NFL rank : 27th
Key players lost: Starting inside linebacker A.J. Hawk (872 snaps) and part-time starters Jamari Lattimore (281 snaps) and Brad Jones (217 snaps)
Defensive backs
Retention rate : 73 percent
NFL rank : Tied for 15th
Key players lost: Starting cornerback Tramon Williams (1,134 snaps) and backup cornerback Davon House (405 snaps)
ESPN Stats & Information also calculated snap counts added by teams this offseason. Of course, the Packers had none given that they did not sign a single player who took a snap for another NFL team last season.With the help of IBM's Watson, Matthew Berry breaks down why the Jaguars' defense is a must-start against the Texans. (0:49)
HOUSTON -- It's no secret that wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins may be the most competitive player in the Houston Texans' locker room.
So when he has the chance to go up against one of "the best corners in the game" -- Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback Jalen Ramsey -- he's understandably excited for the challenging matchup.
"When people mention the top receivers in the league, if they're not mentioning him, they haven't played against him." Jaguars coach Doug Marrone on Houston's DeAndre Hopkins
Though Hopkins always "shows up on Sundays" ready to play, quarterbacks coach Sean Ryan said he sees a tough battle between Hopkins and Ramsey.
"Any time those types of guys go after well-respected corners or good corners, guys that are really up there, I think it brings out their competitive juices," Ryan said.
Hopkins says he "loves" the chance to face Ramsey twice a season, and that the young cornerback is "competitive" and "matches up against me well, better than a lot of other corners."
"I love playing guys that are at that level, the All-Pro level," Hopkins said. "That's what I play football for -- the challenge of going up against guys like that."
The pair has faced off in four games, which is the second-most times a receiver has gone against Ramsey. Only T.Y. Hilton has faced Ramsey more.
Jaguars cornerback Jalen Ramsey (20) was listed as the nearest defender on just two touchdown catches last season. Both were by Houston's DeAndre Hopkins, including this one in Week 15. Reinhold Matay/USA Today Sports
Hopkins scored in both games against the Jaguars last season. According to NFL Next Gen Stats, Ramsey was the nearest defender in coverage on both touchdowns. Ramsey did not allow a touchdown as the nearest defender to any other player last season.
Ramsey also pressed Hopkins -- meaning he lined up less than three yards from the receiver at the time of the snap -- on 50 percent of his targets, compared to just 20 percent for all other receivers. According to NFL Next Gen Stats, Hopkins has been one of the best in the league against press coverage. Since the start of last season, Hopkins' 10 touchdown catches against press coverage are the most in the NFL.
"When people mention the top receivers in the league, if they're not mentioning him, they haven't played against him,” Jaguars coach Doug Marrone said. "When you look at what he does -- tight coverage, he catches it, he runs the routes, run after the catch. Everybody in the stadium knows the ball's going to him at certain times and he's still making those plays. The guy is just relentless, maniacal in how he plays."
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
Ramsey is well-respected in the Texans' locker room by a group that appreciates the way the All-Pro corner plays the game and the way he is able to back up all the talking he does on and off the field, even though he was uncharacteristically quiet entering this Week 7 matchup (1 p.m. ET Sunday, CBS).
Ramsey matches up so well against Hopkins, cornerback Johnathan Joseph said, because of his size and his ability to be physical with Hopkins -- especially at the line of scrimmage. "It will be a heavyweight fight," Joseph said.
"It's always been a good matchup since Jalen has been in the league," Texans coach Bill O’Brien said. "He's a great player. He has all the qualities that you look for in a great corner. He's got good length, he's competitive, he has good ball skills, he can run. Hopkins is a great receiver, so it’s a big part of the game."
The Texans have relied heavily on Hopkins so far this season. Deshaun Watson and Hopkins rank third in receiving yards and sixth in targets and receptions among quarterback and receiver combinations this season, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
Texans safety Tyrann Mathieu called Ramsey one of the top three cornerbacks in the league and said he's looking forward to Sunday's "showdown."
Said Ryan: "There's going to be some physical play at the line of scrimmage and down the field. Both guys have won in the past. Each of them have won enough battles. So it makes it a good battle on the outside for both those guys."INDIANAPOLIS -- A portion of the 243-page report by Ted Wells focuses on an email sent by Indianapolis Colts general manager Ryan Grigson to the NFL on Jan. 17, a day before the AFC Championship Game, about his concerns with the air pressure the New England Patriots use in game balls.
The email was sent to David Gardi and Mike Kensil, senior members of the NFL football operations department.
PDF: Read entire Wells report Ted Wells' 243-page report on the Deflategate scandal concludes "it's more probable than not" that Patriots personnel "participated in a deliberate effort to release air from Patriots game balls after the balls were examined by the referee." Warning: Some language in the report might be objectionable to users. Wells report PDF
Grigson became aware of the situation when Sean Sullivan, the Colts' equipment manager, sent the general manager an email that said "all the Indianapolis Colts want is a completely level playing field. Thank you for being vigilant stewards of that not only for us but for the shield and overall integrity of our game."
Here is another intriguing part about Sullivan's email to Grigson:
"As far as the gameballs are concerned it is well known around the league that after the Patriots gameballs are checked by the officials and brought out for game usage the ballboys for the Patriots will let out some air with a ball needle because their quarterback likes a smaller football so he can grip it better, it would be great if someone would be able to check the air in the game balls as the game goes on so that they don’t get an illegal advantage."
Grigson acknowledged during the scouting combine in February that he notified the NFL about the Colts' concerns about the game balls prior to the AFC Championship Game, which New England won 45-7 over Indianapolis.
"We had concerns, and just like any general manager would do, he wants their team to play on an even playing field," Grigson said. "We took the proper steps to try to ensure that."
The Colts became suspicious of the balls during their Week 11 meeting against the Patriots. After two interceptions of Patriots quarterback Tom Brady by safety Mike Adams, Sullivan and Brian Seabrooks, the Colts' assistant equipment manager, said they noticed that the balls "appeared to be coated in a tacky substance and seemed spongy or soft when squeezed." The two said they didn't test the air pressure of the balls, but the softness of the balls made them suspicious based off their "years of experience."
Sullivan and Seabrooks added there has been talk around the league that the Patriots like their footballs softer than other teams and visiting teams need to be on the lookout when playing at Gillette Stadium, which is home to New England.
A Colts spokesman said the team is aware of the findings in the Wells report, but has no comment.INDIANAPOLIS -- Indianapolis Colts rookie tight end Erik Swoope didn't know what to expect when he put pads and a helmet on for the first time ever last month during the team's rookie minicamp.
Football as a whole is a different sport for Swoope.
He didn't play it in any youth leagues growing up in Southern California. He didn't play it in high school. And he definitely didn't play it at the University of Miami, where he averaged 5 points per game as a senior on the school's basketball team.
Erik Swoope played basketball for the University of Miami, but not a down of football. Joel Auerbach/Getty Images
Swoope made it through rookie camp, offseason workouts and the Colts' mandatory minicamp constantly learning something new every day.
"Learning football terminologies has been the biggest challenge," Swoope said. "It's a different language. Trying to get myself, I'm not going to say forget about basketball, but take the terminology and set it to the side so I can really hone into the different languages used in football."
As improbable as it might seem with his lack of experience, there was the 6-foot-5, 220-pound Swoope catching passes from quarterback Andrew Luck during offseason workouts.
"Andrew makes it so easy," Swoope said. "You just have to make sure you do your stuff correct because he'll put the ball in the right place."
The road to making the Colts has just started for Swoope. He's considered a project player who will likely spend the season on the practice squad if the Colts decide to keep him. The Colts already have established tight ends in Coby Fleener and Dwayne Allen on the roster. It's all about progress with Swoope, who hopes to join San Diego's Antonio Gates and New Orleans' Jimmy Graham in making the transition from college basketball to NFL tight end.
"It's been a pleasant surprise just to see how he's been able to acclimate himself to the game of football," Colts offensive coordinator Pep Hamilton said. "His natural-born talents show every day in practice. He does an amazing job of going up and catching the football, making difficult catches. He has a catching radius that's off the charts. It'll be interesting to see how he comes along during training camp when we put the pads on and actually start practicing football."
Swoope will spend the rest of the offseason working out in Miami with former Hurricane players preparing for his first training camp.
"I just know that will come with reps and practice and just trusting my own abilities," he said. "I feel like I'm making steady progress every day. I just need to continue to do that once we get to training camp."JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Though "Madden 16" doesn't officially hit shelves until Tuesday, Jacksonville Jaguars linebacker Telvin Smith has already spent some time playing an advance copy of the video game.
And like nearly every NFL player who plays it, he checked out his rating the first time he fired it up. Unlike a good portion, though, he was actually fine with his numbers.
"They've got my acceleration at like a 90, speed at like an 88 or something like that, and I said, ‘OK, that's fine,'" Smith said. "As long as I go through all the linebackers and see who's the fastest, if I'm top five, OK. If I'm not, I've got to call somebody. I'm calling EA [Sports]."
Video games are big with players across the league and the annual release of Madden football is generally one of the most anticipated days, especially among the younger players. Most have grown up playing the game and the release of the new edition sends them back to their childhood.
Recalling some of the times they played the game didn't always result in good memories.
Detroit Lions rookie running back Ameer Abdullah, for example, won't ever forget the beatings he got from his older brother Kareem.
"He used to beat me down in Madden," Abdullah said. "I used to get so frustrated. I would just quit. I was like, ‘You're up by 40 with two minutes left in the fourth quarter. Let's just call it quits, shake hands, and go our separate ways, you know. Don't talk about this outside the house.'
"When I was younger [he would get mad], because he has a mouth and he's a talker and obviously older brothers know what to say to get under your skin, but once I got older it was like, ‘You win some, you lose some.'"
One player who hasn't lost many is New York Jets nose tackle Damon Harrison. He's had the game for two weeks and recently finished a season in franchise mode, taking the Jets to a Super Bowl title. It gets even weirder when he explained how he did it.
He was mad at his speed rating of 50 -- "We need to talk to the Madden guy about speed, man," he said. "I'm a whole lot faster." -- so he fudged his overall rating to a 99. He also played himself at tight end during the Super Bowl against Seattle. He didn't have any catches in the game, though.
As for his quarterback
"I went with my guy Geno [Smith] throughout the year," he said. "I turned injuries off, so, you know, everybody was able to stay around for the entire year."
Jaguars running back Storm Johnson also got an early copy of the game, but unlike Smith and Harrison he didn't check his rating. He didn't check it when he was a rookie last season, either, and said he hasn't since he looked at it in EA Sports' NCAA Football game when he was in college. He said he's pretty sure he won't be happy with his current rating so why bother.
"Last time I looked at my rating probably was when I was at the University of Miami [in 2010]," Johnson said. "They probably got it accurate then, but after that I don't even deal with it."
For some players, it's not about the rating or playing the game. It's the fact that they're actually in the game that's the most important thing.
"The first time I saw myself in the game, my face in the game in 2011, it was one of those surreal moments," said Detroit linebacker Josh Bynes, who is in his fourth NFL season. "Just amazing, to see my family and friends to see my face on the game. Sometimes they screenshot a picture or they'll show a video of me catching an interception. It's cool, you know what I mean?
"It's very rare. Only 53 guys can make a roster, you know, so it's tough. To see your face on Madden, it's crazy."
That even awes a real Super Bowl star.
"That's kind of special, to see yourself on the video game rated," New England cornerback Malcolm Butler said. "I haven't seen it yet. I'm not sure what I'll be rated, but I'll find out sooner or later."
ESPN reporters Michael Rothstein, Mike Reiss and Ohm Youngmisuk contributed to this story.Yup. It's that time again.
Time to use another Super Bowl as an excuse to write maybe my favorite piece of the entire year -- the one in which I get to hold that (cough, cough) paragon of parity, the NFL, up to the blinding light of reality and find (gasp) that pretty much everything the NFL has worked so tirelessly to make you believe (that every darned team has a chance to win every darned year) is a bigger myth than the Loch Ness Monster. Whoah. Who knew?
But, meanwhile, unbeknownst to humankind (or at least the portion of humankind that doesn't read the MLB page on ESPN.com), it's actually baseball that has created a playing field on which just about everyone has a shot to live the postseason dream.
Imagine that.
It's even become downright hilarious that every year, when I write this opus, people who don't believe in actual facts start ripping on me as if I'm making this stuff up just because I cover baseball. So let us repeat:
Everything you are about to read is true. Factual. Indisputable. Much as the NFL would love to dispute it. So, ready for that truth parade? Here we go:
• First off, I'd like to thank the Patriots and Seahawks for playing this Sunday, because they’re making this way too easy for me to expose the fiction that permeates the popular wisdom about these two sports.
In football, that popular wisdom goes, "anything can happen." In baseball, on the other hand, it's, "the same teams win every year." Oh, really? Well, let's look more closely at this Super Bowl and see how true that is.
• Let’s start with the Seahawks, a team that hasn’t played in a Super Bowl since, whaddayaknow, the last one. If they win, they would uphold a rich tradition of repeat Super Bowl champs. They’d be the ninth repeater in the Super Bowl era and the fifth in the just past 35 years.
All right, ready for a list of all the repeat World Series winners in baseball over those past 35 years? Here we go:
Yankees 1998-2000
Blue Jays 1992-93
Hold it. That's all? Yup. That's all -- even in a sport in which "the same teams win every year."
• Now let's move along to the Patriots. What a heartwarming story to find them in the Super Bowl, with or without their deflated footballs. Who ever would have guessed they've now played in nearly half of the past 14 Super Bowls (six of 14)?
Over in baseball, on the other hand, the only example you'll find of anything like that in modern times is (who else?) the Yankees, who showed up in six of eight World Series from 1996 to 2003.
Now I'm not going to pretend that the Yankees' dominance thing never happened. But (A) I need to remind you the Yankees' run also inspired an influx of more significant revenue sharing, which has changed the sport and B) even that streak was an aberration. I can verify that for you, if you'd like.
So how many teams besides those Yankees have played in six out of 14 World Series at any point in basically the past half-century? That would be none. It hadn't happened before that since the 1955-66 Dodgers and 1957-64 Yankees were doing it pretty much concurrently. Of course, back then. the same teams really did win every year. But there were also only 16 of them (at least when those streaks began).
Meanwhile in the NFL, aka the Anything Can Happen League, here's what has actually been happening:
• Boy, thank heaven the same teams don't win every year in football because -- oh wait, did somebody say the Patriots are in the Super Bowl?
Hey, of course, they are -- because over in the wide-open AFC, the Patriots, Broncos, Colts, Ravens and Steelers play in pretty much every Super Bowl.
Go check this out if you don't believe me, but I swear this is true: Just those five teams have represented the AFC in the past 12 Super Bowls in a row. Yeah, 12. And 17 of the past 19. Seriously.
Luckily, the NFL has totally mastered the art of parity, so you Jaguars fans, take heart. Your fine squad can expect to stampede into one of these Super Bowls any decade now.
• But at least anything can happen in the rounds leading up to the Super Bowl, right? Except that -- uh oh, hold on a second -- it turns out that pretty much the same stuff keeps happening year after year. Just take a look at the NFL's final four playoff teams. How 'bout this group of upstarts:
The Patriots -- who have made the playoffs six years in a row and 11 of the past 12.
The Seahawks -- who have made it four of the past five years and nine of the past 12.
The Colts -- who have been a playoff team in 12 of the past 13 years.
The Packers -- who have been there six seasons in a row, seven of the past eight, 11 of the past 14 and 17 of the past 22.
So think about this. In a league in which (ahem) anything can happen, those four teams have made 21 playoff appearances in the past six years (the maximum possible would have been 24) and 40 times in the past 12 years (the max would have been 48).
Hmmm. I don't know why, but I'm guessing that if you look up "parity" in one of those online dictionaries, you won't find a link to this blog post.
• Well then, obviously, that parity is showing up in other ways. Yeah, that's the ticket. So let's search for it in the other four playoff teams in the NFL's final eight, among which we find (oh, noooo):
The Ravens -- a playoff team in six of the past seven seasons and seven of nine.
The Broncos -- a playoff team four years in a row and 11 of the past 19.
The Panthers -- a playoff team for the second straight year.
The Cowboys -- a playoff team for the first time since 2009 but also a playoff team in 13 of the past 24 years.
Wait. Really? Oops.
• Then again, that might have something to do with this: The NFL has eight divisions. And you know who won six of them? The same team that won the year before. And the two who missed -- the Bengals and Eagles -- were literally a bounce of the ball away from making it eight out of eight. Parity at its finest and shiniest, wouldn't you say?
• But finally, it doesn't seem fair to just look at this season when we have so many other parity-filled seasons to choose from. Did you know that if we look at the past 30 Super Bowls, you can find nine teams in the NFL that have played in, well, none of them?
And that more than half the teams in the sport (17 of 32, to be exact) have avoided winning any of them?
And that, no matter who wins Sunday, a mere eight teams will have combined to win 24 of the past 30 Super Bowls?
Gosh, you can't beat that for never-ending, unpredictable madness, can you?
• So how does the NFL's sparkling record compare with baseball's? Glad you asked.
First of all, there’s this: All but six baseball teams have played in at least one of the past 30 World Series, and 17 teams have won one. No matter how you do the math, at least 12 teams have divvied up the champagne in 24 of the past 30 World Series, even though the Yankees have won five of them all by themselves. How'd that happen in a sport in which the "same teams win every year?"
• OK, OK. I know what you're thinking: What about the Giants, who have won three of the past five World Series? And how is the AFC so different than the National League, in which the Giants, Cardinals and Phillies have represented the NL in the past seven World Series and nine of the past 11?
Well, obviously, it's not that different. It's not my thing to pretend it is. But I bet I can still make the case that baseball has at least as much parity as the Anything Can Happen League, and here's how:
TEAMS THAT MADE POSTSEASON
AFTER MISSING THE YEAR BEFORE YEAR NFL MLB 2014 5 of 12 (41%) 5 of 10 (50%) 2013 5 of 12 (41%) 5 of 10 (50%) 2012 4 of 12 (33%) 6 of 10 (60%) 2011 6 of 12 (50%) 5 of 8 (63%) 2010 5 of 12 (41%) 5 of 8 (63%) 2009 6 of 12 (50%) 4 of 8 (50%)
• Let's start with how much turnover there is in the makeup of teams that reach the playoffs in any given year. Here's a little chart for you from the past six seasons, listing the number of teams that made the playoffs after missing them the year before (see table on right).
• So digested all that yet? I can help. This makes five years in a row in which baseball has flukily had a better percentage of new playoff teams than the National Parity League. No kidding.
And you'd have to go all the way back to 2005 to find a season in which more than half of the baseball playoff field was comprised of teams that had been there the previous year.
Want to compare percentages over those nine seasons? No, you don't. In the NFL, 58.3 percent of all playoff teams were repeaters from the year before. The percentage in baseball: 39.7. Oops.
• Over the past 10 seasons, 90 percent of the franchises in baseball have made the postseason. That's 27 of 30 (everyone but the Marlins, Blue Jays and Mariners.)
In the NFL over the same span, just 87.5 percent have made the playoffs. That would be 28 of 32 (everyone but the Rams, Bills, Raiders and Browns).
Yeah, that seems pretty close, except for one thing: The NFL has had nearly 40 percent more playoff spots available to be won in those 10 seasons (128) than baseball has had (86). So you probably won't find that note in any NFL parity presentations, either.
• In the NFL, it's truly the land of extra-special opportunity, since even minor technicalities such as, oh, having a winning record aren't always necessary. The NFL has now had two playoff teams in the past five seasons that actually lost more games than they won, whereas baseball has had zero losing teams participating in its postseason since the invention of postseasons. Just thought I'd mention that.
• Another amusing myth about baseball is that only teams with money can win. Which makes total sense -- other than the fact that five of the nine teams with the highest Opening Day payrolls missed the playoffs in 2014. Three of them finished last (Red Sox, Rangers, Phillies.) And of the teams with the 12 highest Opening Day payrolls, exactly one of them (the Giants) even won a series in October. Just two (Giants and Nationals) even won a postseason game. So, er, never mind on that money theory.
• Finally, let's face it, friends. When people try to tell you "the same teams win every year" in baseball, you know what they're really talking about, right? The Yankees.
Yeah, the Yankees sure win every year nowadays, don't they? Other than the fact that they've played in one of the past 11 World Series, that is, and that, in seven of the past 10 seasons, they haven't won a single postseason series.
So there you go. I think it's clear there is, in fact, an Anything Can Happen League. I just have one question: Are you sure it's the league you thought it was?COSTA MESA, Calif. -- Russell Okung looked on as free agency opened in the NBA at the start of July, with a dizzying amount of guaranteed money going to marginal players, and thought about his own struggle to secure similar gains in the NFL.
What followed was a series of 17 tweets, expressing his frustration with player salaries in the NFL. It began like this:
(NFL GUARANTEED MONEY THREAD)
I will never understand how billionaire team owners have convinced the public that the players, who put their bodies on the line every week and make less than 50% of league revenue, are the "ungrateful" ones. — Russell Okung (@RussellOkung) July 3, 2018
Considering football's level of brute, immanent physicality, high turnover as well as the short life cycle of its participants, it would seem to me that NFL players are in the most need of fully guaranteed contracts. — Russell Okung (@RussellOkung) July 3, 2018
You've likely heard the story before: NFL players have the most injury risk, but when it comes to guaranteed compensation, they are the least protected when compared to the fully guaranteed contracts in the NBA and Major League Baseball.
Well, Okung -- the Los Angeles Chargers' left tackle who is now a member of the NFL Players Association executive committee -- would like to change that.
"It's pretty simple: How much risk are NFL players taking on in correlation to how much money that we're actually getting that's real cash?" asked Okung. "I think sometimes people are so swayed by whatever is put out in the media, and you sort of have this little caveat next to it that says guaranteed money. But even with that, there's tons of ways for teams to offset guaranteed money so that it's not guaranteed.
"So what we want to make sure is that every player that has the privilege to play in the NFL makes the most that they can in this game. It's just so sad because there's so many guys that have played in this game that is susceptible to high rates of injury and have nothing to show for it, and the next thing you know they're a dementia case."
With the league's 10-year collective bargaining agreement set to expire after the 2020 NFL season, Okung points to those upcoming negotiations between owners and players as an opportunity to change that dynamic.
Russell Okung: "It's pretty simple: How much risk are NFL players taking on in correlation to how much money that we're actually getting that's real cash?" Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire
According to the CBA, teams are required to spend 89 percent of the salary cap, something that's up to inspection every four years. However, many teams do not spend to this number, carrying over large sums of unused cap room not used on players.
The NFL distributed more than $8 billion in national revenue, mostly from its television deals, in 2017. Each team pulled in $255 million in revenue -- so Okung believes the money is there to pay players guaranteed contracts.
"I'm arguing against the whole CBA," Okung said. "It's flawed, and I think as things change and the media landscape changes, we have to think about things differently -- that includes agents, players and unions, too.
"Players are serious about it -- they're understanding that this is going to be a pivotal time. I don't think there will be any other time like this in history. This CBA will be the biggest ever. There's nothing like this because you have cord cutting going on, so technology companies are going to be bidding for our rights. Just in TV revenue alone, we're looking at $3 [billion] to $4 billion maybe. That's insane. The money at stake is changing, and the way people are going to watch games is changing. Sports gambling is coming up, and that's going to be a huge industry for sports teams."
Okung believes he's an advocate for players because of his interests outside of football. The Houston native negotiated his past two contracts without an agent, which received some criticism in NFL circles.
A self-described computer geek, Okung has invested in tech companies and dreams of becoming the first black owner of an NFL franchise.
To achieve his goal, Okung has the tough task of persuading rank-and-file members of his union such as Chargers tight end Virgil Green to be willing to potentially sit out a season to achieve a lofty goal like guaranteed contracts.
A seven-year veteran, Green recently signed a three-year, $8.6 million deal to join the Chargers in free agency, which included $5.9 million in guaranteed money.
Green, 30, already has made $10.5 million in his NFL career, and he has come to terms with the reality of the current agreement with ownership.
"The number that I've asked for in a contract I've always gotten because my number isn't like some of these other guys," Green said. "So it is different from my perspective, and tight ends in terms of contract always get low-balled. That's just what history has done -- unless you're a top-five guy you're not going to get a very good contract.
"The first thing I think about that [NBA guaranteed contracts] is they have 13 guys on a squad. In the NFL you have 53 on the team, so that's a lot of guys that you have to pay. And this sport is more physical. I would love to see guys get guaranteed contracts, but if you look at things from both sides, it's tough to say if you give a guy a guaranteed contract for four or five years, you don't know if he's going to last. I just think our sport is a lot different. It's tougher to evaluate -- you never know how guys are handling things mentally, how they're taking care of their body and how they see themselves progressing in the future."
One potential bargaining chip for the players could be how the anthem issue is handled during the regular season. Owners and players met last week in an attempt to establish a consistent policy for all 32 teams so that protests against social and racial injustice during the national anthem will not serve as a political issue or distraction during the season.
"We won't do much until we find out what's going on with the meetings in New York right now with the union and the league office," Chargers GM Tom Telesco said about the issue. "Once they come up with what their guidelines are, what their policies are, then we'll get together with the players, decide how we're going to handle it and go from there. Probably not a lot different than last year."
Okung raised his right fist during the anthem to protest social and racial injustice all of last year, but he has not decided how he will handle things for the upcoming season.
"We're all one," Okung said. "It can't be players over here, and owners over there. That's not helpful, but what it can be is player and league ownership against everyone else. That can happen, and I would love for us to get to that point, where players feel supported by the NFL and there are ways to move on from this issue. We can do it together. But not against each other -- that will never happen."KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Philip Rivers knew Mike Williams had it in him.
He'd seen the acrobatic grabs and run-after-catch ability from the second-year pro.
But with the Los Angeles Chargers' top receiver Keenan Allen out with a hip injury, Rivers and the rest of his teammates needed to see it against the Kansas City Chiefs, with the Bolts down 14 points in the fourth quarter on Thursday.
And Williams came to his team's rescue.
Mike Williams celebrates after catching a touchdown and a two-point conversion for the Chargers with 4 seconds left. David Eulitt/Getty Images
"There's never been any doubt in this locker room about Mike," Rivers said. "But I think that the whole world knows now why he was picked No. 7 [overall in the 2017 draft], you know? ... All the receivers contributed, but he took over the football game."
Williams put on an impressive display, finishing with six receptions for 76 receiving yards and three total touchdowns. His effort included the final score on a 1-yard fade route, along with the two-point conversion to close out the 29-28 victory.
Williams also scored on a 3-yard touchdown catch in the second quarter and ran in a 19-yard reverse for a touchdown.
The Clemson product had a disappointing rookie season, missing six games last year due to back and knee injuries and finishing with just 11 receptions for 95 receiving yards.
NFL Playoff Machine See what the latest playoff picture looks like and simulate your own playoff scenarios.
NFL Playoff Machine
With that experience behind him, Chargers left tackle Russell Okung said the start of Williams' heroics began during training camp with daily study sessions and drills with new receivers coach Phil McGeoghan.
"A lot of people can be excited about the plays he made today," Okung said. "But what I remember is training camp, and this guy coming back from an injury and trying to prove himself in the NFL.
"What he and Phil McGeoghan did, and the effort that me made every day to show that he can be an integral part of this team -- that process that he's been through and everything he put together -- all of that was evident today."
From there, Williams gained more trust in himself, with Rivers and his role in the offense. So when Allen went down Thursday, Williams knew it was time for him to step up.
"All the receivers told [Allen] that we were going to make the plays that needed to be made," Williams said. "Travis [Benjamin] made some big plays on that last drive, Tyrell [Williams] also made some big plays in the game.
"We just wanted to step up. [Allen] wanted to play in this game. He was down, so we just wanted to fight for him."
With two games left, Williams has totaled 37 receptions for 592 receiving yards and nine touchdown catches.
Along with Williams, Benjamin played much bigger than his diminutive, 5-foot-10, 175-pound frame.
Benjamin made two huge catches on the winning drive for the Chargers, a 31-yarder over the middle on which he was drilled by Kansas City safety Ron Parker and held on to the ball, and another 26-yard catch on fourth-and-7 that kept the final drive alive.
Benjamin was an honorary captain for the game and took over the role as slot receiver with Allen out.
"The way he has been practicing, it did not surprise us," Rivers said about Benjamin. "We have been seeing him practice. He started out the season pretty slow because of injuries, but once he's gotten healthy, he has looked very good. It was good to see him have some success on the football field tonight."
Williams was the latest hero for the Chargers as they have won or held on to win four games this season in the last seconds of the game.
Chargers head coach Anthony Lynn said he decided early on that his offense would go for two and the win if the Chargers got into the end zone on the final drive.
"We didn't come here to tie, we came here to win," Lynn said. "To me it was a no-brainer."
For Lynn and his players like Williams, they have embraced making plays in the tense, final moments of the game.
"We have been in these situations so many times, we believe we are going to win now," Lynn said. "The guys are really comfortable when we are in these situations. They do not panic. There is no anxiety."The yearly awards handed out by the Associated Press will be unveiled during the NFL Honors show at 9 p.m. ET Saturday on NBC. Several members of the Los Angeles Rams stand as legitimate candidates, perhaps even favorites. That's what happens when you finish with an 11-5 record and a plus-149 point differential. This week, while waiting for the Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots to face off in Super Bowl LII, we'll take a closer look at those Rams candidates. Let's start with wide receiver Cooper Kupp, who's worthy of consideration for the AP Offensive Rookie of the Year Award.
Numbers: Kupp was among several Rams starters who sat out the regular-season finale, but he still ranked fourth among rookies in catches (62), second in receiving yards (869) and tied for fourth in receiving touchdowns (5). Among rookie wide receivers, Kupp finished first in receptions per route (14.6 percent) and third in reception percentage (66 percent). He had 18 third-down catches that resulted in first downs, tied for ninth among all receivers.
2018 NFL free agency Kirk Cousins. Jimmy Graham. Andrew Norwell. This class is already wild. Here's everything to know. • Barnwell's free agency & trade grades »
• Signings, analysis for all 32 teams »
• Ranking top 100 NFL free agents »
• Players who landed in perfect spots »
• Highest-paid players at every position »
• Who really got best free-agent deals? »
• Biggest remaining need for all 32 »
• Are Vikings NFC fave with Cousins? »
• Fantasy impact of key deals, moves »
Defining moment: One of Kupp's best traits is his mental toughness, which showed up in his ability to put bad plays -- and, in this case, bad games -- behind him. Kupp made two critical mistakes in a close loss to the Minnesota Vikings in Week 11, fumbling near the end zone and dropping a wide-open third-down pass in field-goal territory. Against the New Orleans Saints the following week, however, Kupp led the Rams to victory with a team-leading eight catches for 116 yards.
Why he should win: Kupp was a rookie third-round pick out of little-known Eastern Washington, playing on an upstart team that wound up leading the NFL in points -- and outside of Todd Gurley, he might have been their most productive offensive weapon. Kupp led the Rams in receiving yards while playing mostly out of the slot. He dropped five passes, according to ESPN Stats & Info, but he was a major boost to the offense thanks to an innate knack for getting open and surprising ability after the catch. Six receivers were drafted ahead of him, and had he played in the finale, Kupp could've finished with more yards than all of them.
Why he wouldn't: It's bad timing for Kupp, because this award will come down to a couple of third-round running backs. Kareem Hunt of the Kansas City Chiefs finished with 1,782 scrimmage yards and 11 touchdowns, and Alvin Kamara of the Saints amassed 1,554 scrimmage yards and 13 touchdowns. Hunt led all players in rushing yards (1,327) and Kamara led all running backs in receiving yards (826). They both played on division champions, too.
Quotable: "I think for me the expectation never really changed, regardless of where you come from. I believe in myself coming into this and being able to play at this level. It's obviously great being able to produce, but I think just being a part of this team, having great coaches that put you in the right position, players alongside of you that make this game easy. ... It's really just a testament to what these guys in this locker room were able to do. I'm looking forward to being able to come back next year and continue to produce." -- Kupp, after the first-round playoff loss to the Atlanta Falcons, on coming from a small school and contributing immediately.The Los Angeles Rams finished the first half of the season with an 8-1 record. Here's a look at how they have fared and what's ahead:
First-half rewind: The Rams lone loss came to the Saints in a shootout. Jared Goff has ascended the quarterback rankings and has proven himself as a leader under second-year coach Sean McVay. Todd Gurley is on a campaign to repeat as the NFL's Offensive Player of the Year, if not win the league's Most Valuable Player, as he leads the league in rushing yards and touchdowns. The defense has not looked exactly as the Rams envisioned after an offseason makeover, with cornerback Aqib Talib and outside linebacker Dominique Easley on injured reserve. But Aaron Donald is second in sacks (10) and the defense has come through with several last-minute stops. Grade: Near perfection.
Rams revised game-by game prediction Here's how L.A. Rams reporter Lindsey Thiry sees the rest of the season playing out. Date Opp. W-L Nov. 11 vs. Seahawks W Nov. 19 vs. Chiefs L Dec. 2 at Lions W Dec. 9 at Bears W Dec. 16 vs. Eagles W Dec. 23 at Cardinals W Dec. 30 vs. 49ers W
What's the biggest factor in the Rams making a deep playoff run? The Rams have played in several close games this season that have come down to the final minutes (Vikings, Broncos, Seahawks, Packers, Saints). They've won four out of five of those games because of a big play in any of the three phases -- offense, defense and special teams. But as the Rams look to make a deep playoff run, they'll need to put together a more consistent effort through four quarters on offense and defense, and not let the outcome be determined in the final two minutes.
MVP: It's a close call between Goff and Gurley, but Gurley gets the nod. He has scored in 12 consecutive games, and even as opponents key in on slowing him, Gurley has proven to be unstoppable. The multidimensional running back leads the NFL with 868 yards rushing and has a league-high 16 touchdowns. And teammates won't stop talking about his unselfish play and willingness to set a block.
Biggest surprise: When the Rams' schedule was released, it was considered among the most difficult in the NFL, and ESPN's Football Power Index projected the Rams would win 9.4 games. Yet, the defending NFC West champions made it through the first eight undefeated, which included victories over the Chargers, Vikings and Packers. And, though their perfect season is no longer a possibility after a loss to the Saints, they're still posed to make a deep playoff run - possibly to the Super Bowl.
Hurdle to overcome: The Rams must play more consistently on defense. At times, they've been susceptible against the run and they've also been vulnerable in allowing explosive pass plays. The defensive linemen have each said they must play assignment football, and trust in their teammates. And, with the addition of edge rusher Dante Fowler Jr. at the trade deadline, plus the pending return of Talib from injured reserve, the Rams' pass defense is in for a boost.Tim Hasselbeck and Ryan Clark debate whether they'd rather have Jared Goff or Carson Wentz as their quarterback. (1:21)
There was no doubt that Jared Goff and Carson Wentz would be taken with the top picks in the 2016 NFL draft -- the only question was which quarterback would be selected first.
Initially, the Rams weren’t in position for either quarterback, with the 15th overall pick.
But the Rams needed a franchise quarterback, almost as much as they needed to make a splash in Los Angeles after spending the previous 22 seasons in St. Louis, and made a blockbuster trade to move up into the top overall spot.
The Rams went with Goff, a Northern California native with a laid-back vibe who played three seasons at Cal. Wentz, a rugged playmaker from North Dakota State, went second to the Philadelphia Eagles.
Goff and Wentz will be linked for the remainder of their careers, and the debate continues over which organization got the better QB.
Last season, Wentz suffered a season-ending knee injury against the Rams in a 43-35 victory in Week 14. But backup Nick Foles led the Eagles to a Super Bowl win over the New England Patriots.
Goff-Wentz: By the numbers Jared Goff Carson Wentz 8,827 Career passing yards 10,152 61 Total TD 72 58 Avg. Career QBR 63.8
Goff and the Rams lost to the Atlanta Falcons in an NFC wild-card matchup.
On Sunday night, the second installment of Goff vs. Wentz will take place when the Rams host the Eagles. The Eagles have endured an uneven season at 6-7, while the 11-2 Rams have clinched a division title for a second consecutive year and are poised to make a deep playoff run.
2016: Wentz faster out of the gate
Goff’s rookie season was disastrous.
Former head coach Jeff Fisher opted for the 21-year-old QB to begin his career on the sideline, as he listed Goff inactive for a season opener against his hometown San Francisco 49ers in the Bay Area.
The Rams started 3-1 despite an anemic offense led by Case Keenum. Then, Fisher’s painful brand of ball began to unravel. After going 1-4 over the next five games, Goff was thrust into the starting role, but the season already had spiraled out of control.
The Rams were the lowest-scoring team in the NFL, and the offense lacked creativity and the staff did not feature a proven quarterbacks coach.
With Jeff Fisher, Jared Goff looked destined to be a bust. Chuck Cook/USA TODAY Sports
Not an ideal situation for a rookie.
Goff was pulverized in seven winless starts as the Rams finished 4-12. He completed 112 of 205 passes (54.6 percent) for five touchdowns and seven interceptions. He was sacked 26 times behind an offensive line that allowed the second-most sacks that season (49).
If there was a glimmer of hope that season, it was Goff’s performance against the New Orleans Saints. He was 20-of-32 for 214 yards and three touchdowns, with an interception. Though the 49-21 score showed a lopsided defeat, his game tape would prove to be a valuable selling point for a quarterback-minded coach who would eventually take over.
With three games remaining in the season, Fisher was fired and pundits outside the Rams’ headquarters began to shout that Goff was a bust. He had averaged just 5.3 yards per throw, had the lowest total QBR among QBs with at least 200 passing attempts, and the Rams were outscored in his seven games 221-85.
But what the pundits didn’t know was Goff had been through a similar drubbing before -- his freshman season at Cal, when the Bears finished his freshman season 1-11, before going on to improve his sophomore (5-7) and junior (8-5) years.
When asked after a final loss if there was a bright spot to the season, Goff responded, "I'm not sure there is much. Maybe that we have a change coming that is going to be positive and bring a lot of positive energy."
Similar to his college career, Goff remained calm despite his performance following his rookie season, and he also met his new head coach, Sean McVay.
Wentz was supposed to get the equivalent of a redshirt year, but when Sam Bradford was traded to the Minnesota Vikings eight days before the start of the season, it became Wentz’s team. Despite having little time to prepare, he won NFL Offensive Rookie of the Month for September after posting five touchdowns with no interceptions and a 103.8 passer rating, while the Eagles rocketed to a 3-0 start. The city let out a collective sigh of relief, realizing the No. 2 overall pick was the real deal.
He established rookie franchise marks for completions (379), attempts (607), passing yards (3,782), completion percentage (62.4) and passing touchdowns (16). Talk about being thrown into the fire: Wentz’s 607 pass attempts were the most in team history in a single season.
His 134 passes without throwing an interception at the start of the year was the third-longest streak to open a career, behind only Dak Prescott (176) and Tom Brady (162). When the Eagles drafted him, the higher-ups lauded not just Wentz’s athleticism but his football acumen as well. That was all on display almost immediately.
The Eagles finished 7-9 in Doug Pederson’s first year at the helm, but the play of the young quarterback had the organization feeling bullish about its future. Given Goff’s struggles out of the gate, it seemed like the Eagles lucked out by having Wentz drop to them at No. 2.
2017: Goff’s breakout year; Wentz’s bittersweet championship
One season with the 31-year-old McVay, who was hired in part because of his ability to developing quarterbacks (most notably Kirk Cousins with the Washington Redskins) and Goff went from bust to promising, up-and-coming superstar.
“When you have a guy that you feel like can do the things that you’re asking him to do, you got a chance to compete week in and week out,” said McVay at his introductory news conference. “Sitting down with Jared, you can feel his passion and the drive that he has to come back and respond in Year 2 and be better.”
McVay’s offense took the Rams from the lowest-scoring team in the NFL to the highest, averaging 29.9 points per game -- and Goff proved to be a QB with a worthy arm and growing understanding of how to play in McVay’s scheme.
He led the Rams to a signature come-from-behind victory over the Dallas Cowboys in Week 3, then helped them win three straight on the East Coast and in London. He effectively altered the narrative to his young career, and it became increasingly apparent that the McVay-Goff pairing was bound for success.
Carson Wentz, right, did his best to stay in the background during the Eagles' run to the Super Bowl. Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
In an offense that featured NFL Offensive Player of the Year Todd Gurley II, Goff completed 296 of 477 (62.1 percent) passes for 3,804 yards and 28 touchdowns, with seven interceptions in 15 games. The Rams finished the regular season 11-5, as Goff helped the team clinch its first NFC West title since 2003.
The season ended with the Rams' first playoff appearance since 2004, which resulted in a loss to the Atlanta Falcons in an NFC wild-card matchup.
Goff was selected to the Pro Bowl as a first alternate, an end to a bounce-back season few could have predicted.
“I think it’s just the beginning," Goff said at the time.
Shortly after the Eagles secured their first Super Bowl in franchise history, Wentz sat down at his locker stall and, overcome with emotion, bowed his head down toward his knees while “We Are the Champions” played over the loudspeakers. After a word from fellow QB Nate Sudfeld, Wentz rose up, wiped his face and continued to celebrate with his teammates.
This was not how he envisioned it: watching from the sideline as backup Nick Foles took the Eagles across the finish line. But a torn ACL/LCL suffered Week 14 against Goff’s Rams prevented him from finishing the year and set up an improbable underdog charge by Foles & Co.
Wentz put ego aside and moved into the background, allowing Foles to take the reins. He worked closely with Foles behind the scenes while providing him the space he needed in the public forum.
While he was unable to play during the playoffs, Wentz deserves as much credit as anybody for setting the Eagles up for postseason success. He led the team to an 11-2 record in the games he started to help secure the top seed in the NFC and finished second in the NFL with 33 touchdown passes despite missing the last three-plus games. Prior to his injury, he was the odds-on favorite to win MVP.
Wentz was lethal in the red zone -- tossing 23 touchdowns with zero interceptions and no sacks -- and was the best QB in the league on third down. His ability to escape pressure and create on the fly led to one highlight-reel play after the next.
His style danced on the line between aggressive and reckless. Wentz sacrificed his body on a number of occasions in the name of making a play. It caught up to him in Los Angeles, where a goal-line scramble resulted in a season-ending injury.
2018: Where are they now/what’s next?
Goff, now 24, has proven to be an ascendant star -- and an MVP candidate -- in his third season.
“You mature, you learn a lot,” Goff said before the opener, when asked how he’d grown since his rookie year. “You learn a lot about yourself, a lot about the NFL and how to prepare, how to go about your daily business, how you get ready for a game.”
This year, Goff has demonstrated a knowledge and command of McVay’s offense that he lacked in 2017, and has developed total trust in his receivers.
Goff has also never dwelled on that disastrous rookie year.
“As time goes on, you become more comfortable in your role, and I think that's no different with this one,” Goff said. “Just being able to be the leader I want to be, the teammate I want to be, the person I want to be and just continue to mature and grow and be the best I can be every day.”
In Goff's second year in Sean McVay's scheme he has had one high-flying performance after another. Robert Hanashiro-USA TODAY Sports
He has also proven to be the yin to McVay’s yang. Goff is cool and collected, McVay, admittedly is a bit excitable.
This season’s biggest moment came in a Week 4 victory over the Minnesota Vikings, when Goff completed 26 of 33 passes for 465 yards and five touchdowns, with no interceptions. He posted a perfect quarterback rating of 158.3, just one of 49 perfect QB ratings in the NFL since 1950.
He also led a come-from-behind win against the Green Bay Packers and went toe-to-toe with MVP favorite Patrick Mahomes, before finally outdueling the Kansas City Chiefs quarterback in a Monday Night Football showdown to lift the Rams to a 54-51 win.
“In all three phases you've seen significant improvements,” McVay said of Goff’s growth. “The decisions and the timing are a result of him recognizing things. Then, I think the accuracy is a result of just a physically talented player, and then the work that he's put in, in the offseason and then during the course of the year as well.”
In less than three seasons, Goff has gone from bust to a quarterback expected to lead an all-star cast to the Super Bowl.
And because of that, Goff should be due a massive, if not record-breaking, contract for his role in helping the organization to a dramatic turnaround the last two seasons. After the Rams awarded Todd Gurley a four-year, $60 million extension going into his fourth season, it would not be surprising to see a similar situation this offseason for Goff.
Wentz’s comeback has not gone as planned. The Eagles are 6-7 and have an 8.9 percent chance to make the playoffs. Goff and the Rams have the ability to deliver the knockout blow this week.
There was plenty of talk about a repeat heading into this year. Part of the thinking was that an ultramotivated Wentz would be an elixir to any Super Bowl hangover. But that has not proved to be the case. The hangover, turns out, was a doozy. And Wentz, who did not make it back onto the field until Week 3, has spent the season working to get back into form. He’s not all the way back yet. There are moments when he looks like his old MVP-caliber self, but he has also had stretches when the rust is evident. One of those funks came in the biggest game of the year against Dallas last week. Wentz was unable to get much going for most of the game before busting out for three touchdowns down the stretch in what proved to be a 29-23 overtime loss.
Wentz’s accuracy (69.6 completion rate) is up over nine points from last year, but his overall production is down. The offense has regressed, scoring about a touchdown less on average compared to last year.
What’s missing most is that Wentz magic -- the big, improbable plays that generated the feeling that all things are possible with No. 11 under center.
Understandably, Wentz has not been as high-flying in his first season back from major injury. Pederson noted that his QB did not have a full offseason to work with his guys like he had the year prior. There simply hasn’t been enough time -- both with his teammates and since the injury -- for Wentz to find that gear.
This season, with the Rams racing to the playoffs, will go to Goff, but Wentz will be heard from again before long.Tim Hasselbeck and Ryan Clark debate whether they'd rather have Jared Goff or Carson Wentz as their quarterback. (1:21)
There was no doubt that Jared Goff and Carson Wentz would be taken with the top picks in the 2016 NFL draft -- the only question was which quarterback would be selected first.
Initially, the Rams weren’t in position for either quarterback, with the 15th overall pick.
But the Rams needed a franchise quarterback, almost as much as they needed to make a splash in Los Angeles after spending the previous 22 seasons in St. Louis, and made a blockbuster trade to move up into the top overall spot.
The Rams went with Goff, a Northern California native with a laid-back vibe who played three seasons at Cal. Wentz, a rugged playmaker from North Dakota State, went second to the Philadelphia Eagles.
Goff and Wentz will be linked for the remainder of their careers, and the debate continues over which organization got the better QB.
Last season, Wentz suffered a season-ending knee injury against the Rams in a 43-35 victory in Week 14. But backup Nick Foles led the Eagles to a Super Bowl win over the New England Patriots.
Goff-Wentz: By the numbers Jared Goff Carson Wentz 8,827 Career passing yards 10,152 61 Total TD 72 58 Avg. Career QBR 63.8
Goff and the Rams lost to the Atlanta Falcons in an NFC wild-card matchup.
On Sunday night, the second installment of Goff vs. Wentz will take place when the Rams host the Eagles. The Eagles have endured an uneven season at 6-7, while the 11-2 Rams have clinched a division title for a second consecutive year and are poised to make a deep playoff run.
2016: Wentz faster out of the gate
Goff’s rookie season was disastrous.
Former head coach Jeff Fisher opted for the 21-year-old QB to begin his career on the sideline, as he listed Goff inactive for a season opener against his hometown San Francisco 49ers in the Bay Area.
The Rams started 3-1 despite an anemic offense led by Case Keenum. Then, Fisher’s painful brand of ball began to unravel. After going 1-4 over the next five games, Goff was thrust into the starting role, but the season already had spiraled out of control.
The Rams were the lowest-scoring team in the NFL, and the offense lacked creativity and the staff did not feature a proven quarterbacks coach.
With Jeff Fisher, Jared Goff looked destined to be a bust. Chuck Cook/USA TODAY Sports
Not an ideal situation for a rookie.
Goff was pulverized in seven winless starts as the Rams finished 4-12. He completed 112 of 205 passes (54.6 percent) for five touchdowns and seven interceptions. He was sacked 26 times behind an offensive line that allowed the second-most sacks that season (49).
If there was a glimmer of hope that season, it was Goff’s performance against the New Orleans Saints. He was 20-of-32 for 214 yards and three touchdowns, with an interception. Though the 49-21 score showed a lopsided defeat, his game tape would prove to be a valuable selling point for a quarterback-minded coach who would eventually take over.
With three games remaining in the season, Fisher was fired and pundits outside the Rams’ headquarters began to shout that Goff was a bust. He had averaged just 5.3 yards per throw, had the lowest total QBR among QBs with at least 200 passing attempts, and the Rams were outscored in his seven games 221-85.
But what the pundits didn’t know was Goff had been through a similar drubbing before -- his freshman season at Cal, when the Bears finished his freshman season 1-11, before going on to improve his sophomore (5-7) and junior (8-5) years.
When asked after a final loss if there was a bright spot to the season, Goff responded, "I'm not sure there is much. Maybe that we have a change coming that is going to be positive and bring a lot of positive energy."
Similar to his college career, Goff remained calm despite his performance following his rookie season, and he also met his new head coach, Sean McVay.
Wentz was supposed to get the equivalent of a redshirt year, but when Sam Bradford was traded to the Minnesota Vikings eight days before the start of the season, it became Wentz’s team. Despite having little time to prepare, he won NFL Offensive Rookie of the Month for September after posting five touchdowns with no interceptions and a 103.8 passer rating, while the Eagles rocketed to a 3-0 start. The city let out a collective sigh of relief, realizing the No. 2 overall pick was the real deal.
He established rookie franchise marks for completions (379), attempts (607), passing yards (3,782), completion percentage (62.4) and passing touchdowns (16). Talk about being thrown into the fire: Wentz’s 607 pass attempts were the most in team history in a single season.
His 134 passes without throwing an interception at the start of the year was the third-longest streak to open a career, behind only Dak Prescott (176) and Tom Brady (162). When the Eagles drafted him, the higher-ups lauded not just Wentz’s athleticism but his football acumen as well. That was all on display almost immediately.
The Eagles finished 7-9 in Doug Pederson’s first year at the helm, but the play of the young quarterback had the organization feeling bullish about its future. Given Goff’s struggles out of the gate, it seemed like the Eagles lucked out by having Wentz drop to them at No. 2.
2017: Goff’s breakout year; Wentz’s bittersweet championship
One season with the 31-year-old McVay, who was hired in part because of his ability to developing quarterbacks (most notably Kirk Cousins with the Washington Redskins) and Goff went from bust to promising, up-and-coming superstar.
“When you have a guy that you feel like can do the things that you’re asking him to do, you got a chance to compete week in and week out,” said McVay at his introductory news conference. “Sitting down with Jared, you can feel his passion and the drive that he has to come back and respond in Year 2 and be better.”
McVay’s offense took the Rams from the lowest-scoring team in the NFL to the highest, averaging 29.9 points per game -- and Goff proved to be a QB with a worthy arm and growing understanding of how to play in McVay’s scheme.
He led the Rams to a signature come-from-behind victory over the Dallas Cowboys in Week 3, then helped them win three straight on the East Coast and in London. He effectively altered the narrative to his young career, and it became increasingly apparent that the McVay-Goff pairing was bound for success.
Carson Wentz, right, did his best to stay in the background during the Eagles' run to the Super Bowl. Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
In an offense that featured NFL Offensive Player of the Year Todd Gurley II, Goff completed 296 of 477 (62.1 percent) passes for 3,804 yards and 28 touchdowns, with seven interceptions in 15 games. The Rams finished the regular season 11-5, as Goff helped the team clinch its first NFC West title since 2003.
The season ended with the Rams' first playoff appearance since 2004, which resulted in a loss to the Atlanta Falcons in an NFC wild-card matchup.
Goff was selected to the Pro Bowl as a first alternate, an end to a bounce-back season few could have predicted.
“I think it’s just the beginning," Goff said at the time.
Shortly after the Eagles secured their first Super Bowl in franchise history, Wentz sat down at his locker stall and, overcome with emotion, bowed his head down toward his knees while “We Are the Champions” played over the loudspeakers. After a word from fellow QB Nate Sudfeld, Wentz rose up, wiped his face and continued to celebrate with his teammates.
This was not how he envisioned it: watching from the sideline as backup Nick Foles took the Eagles across the finish line. But a torn ACL/LCL suffered Week 14 against Goff’s Rams prevented him from finishing the year and set up an improbable underdog charge by Foles & Co.
Wentz put ego aside and moved into the background, allowing Foles to take the reins. He worked closely with Foles behind the scenes while providing him the space he needed in the public forum.
While he was unable to play during the playoffs, Wentz deserves as much credit as anybody for setting the Eagles up for postseason success. He led the team to an 11-2 record in the games he started to help secure the top seed in the NFC and finished second in the NFL with 33 touchdown passes despite missing the last three-plus games. Prior to his injury, he was the odds-on favorite to win MVP.
Wentz was lethal in the red zone -- tossing 23 touchdowns with zero interceptions and no sacks -- and was the best QB in the league on third down. His ability to escape pressure and create on the fly led to one highlight-reel play after the next.
His style danced on the line between aggressive and reckless. Wentz sacrificed his body on a number of occasions in the name of making a play. It caught up to him in Los Angeles, where a goal-line scramble resulted in a season-ending injury.
2018: Where are they now/what’s next?
Goff, now 24, has proven to be an ascendant star -- and an MVP candidate -- in his third season.
“You mature, you learn a lot,” Goff said before the opener, when asked how he’d grown since his rookie year. “You learn a lot about yourself, a lot about the NFL and how to prepare, how to go about your daily business, how you get ready for a game.”
This year, Goff has demonstrated a knowledge and command of McVay’s offense that he lacked in 2017, and has developed total trust in his receivers.
Goff has also never dwelled on that disastrous rookie year.
“As time goes on, you become more comfortable in your role, and I think that's no different with this one,” Goff said. “Just being able to be the leader I want to be, the teammate I want to be, the person I want to be and just continue to mature and grow and be the best I can be every day.”
In Goff's second year in Sean McVay's scheme he has had one high-flying performance after another. Robert Hanashiro-USA TODAY Sports
He has also proven to be the yin to McVay’s yang. Goff is cool and collected, McVay, admittedly is a bit excitable.
This season’s biggest moment came in a Week 4 victory over the Minnesota Vikings, when Goff completed 26 of 33 passes for 465 yards and five touchdowns, with no interceptions. He posted a perfect quarterback rating of 158.3, just one of 49 perfect QB ratings in the NFL since 1950.
He also led a come-from-behind win against the Green Bay Packers and went toe-to-toe with MVP favorite Patrick Mahomes, before finally outdueling the Kansas City Chiefs quarterback in a Monday Night Football showdown to lift the Rams to a 54-51 win.
“In all three phases you've seen significant improvements,” McVay said of Goff’s growth. “The decisions and the timing are a result of him recognizing things. Then, I think the accuracy is a result of just a physically talented player, and then the work that he's put in, in the offseason and then during the course of the year as well.”
In less than three seasons, Goff has gone from bust to a quarterback expected to lead an all-star cast to the Super Bowl.
And because of that, Goff should be due a massive, if not record-breaking, contract for his role in helping the organization to a dramatic turnaround the last two seasons. After the Rams awarded Todd Gurley a four-year, $60 million extension going into his fourth season, it would not be surprising to see a similar situation this offseason for Goff.
Wentz’s comeback has not gone as planned. The Eagles are 6-7 and have an 8.9 percent chance to make the playoffs. Goff and the Rams have the ability to deliver the knockout blow this week.
There was plenty of talk about a repeat heading into this year. Part of the thinking was that an ultramotivated Wentz would be an elixir to any Super Bowl hangover. But that has not proved to be the case. The hangover, turns out, was a doozy. And Wentz, who did not make it back onto the field until Week 3, has spent the season working to get back into form. He’s not all the way back yet. There are moments when he looks like his old MVP-caliber self, but he has also had stretches when the rust is evident. One of those funks came in the biggest game of the year against Dallas last week. Wentz was unable to get much going for most of the game before busting out for three touchdowns down the stretch in what proved to be a 29-23 overtime loss.
Wentz’s accuracy (69.6 completion rate) is up over nine points from last year, but his overall production is down. The offense has regressed, scoring about a touchdown less on average compared to last year.
What’s missing most is that Wentz magic -- the big, improbable plays that generated the feeling that all things are possible with No. 11 under center.
Understandably, Wentz has not been as high-flying in his first season back from major injury. Pederson noted that his QB did not have a full offseason to work with his guys like he had the year prior. There simply hasn’t been enough time -- both with his teammates and since the injury -- for Wentz to find that gear.
This season, with the Rams racing to the playoffs, will go to Goff, but Wentz will be heard from again before long.Aaron Donald gives credit to the basement gym in his house growing up for helping him become the player he is today. (4:22)
LOS ANGELES -- Aaron Donald was uncommonly sentimental on the afternoon of Dec. 23. He had just broken the record for sacks by a defensive tackle, accumulating 19.5 with a game remaining, and so he found himself on the verge of tears as he rode the Los Angeles Rams' bus out of State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, that Sunday. There, Donald crafted long, heartfelt text messages for all of the people who helped mold him into what might now be the greatest, fiercest player in the NFL.
The first one went to his father, Archie Donald, and the first sentence was poignant.
“You created a monster.”
That monster was built in the Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar neighborhood of Pittsburgh, a gritty suburb in the northeast section of the city. It was built in the basement of that unmistakable two-story brick house with the red-and-white awning, in the homemade gymnasium that Aaron began to work out in before sunrise as a high school freshman. It was built, in many ways, by Archie, a former nose tackle and longtime workout junkie who introduced Aaron to strength training as a way to inject structure into his son’s life, igniting the obsession that precipitated greatness.
“A lot of my success, and a lot of who I am now, is because of my dad, and the way he raised me and taught me how to have a work ethic,” Donald told ESPN. “I always tell my dad he was training me to be a pro before he even knew it.”
Super Bowl LIII: Pats 13, Rams 3 What you need to know off the game:
• O'Connor: Appreciate this Pats dynasty »
• Barnwell: Inside the defensive masterpiece »
• Graziano: How the Patriots stymied McVay »
• TB12 makes history with sixth Super Bowl »
• Patriots' defense leads the way »
• Patriots keep rewriting record book »
• WR Edelman earns MVP honors »
• Interesting prop bets that cashed »
• Rams likely contenders for years to come »
• Early '19 Power Rankings » | 10 predictions »
More Super Bowl » | NFL coverage »
Archie grew up in the southern part of Homewood, historically one of the most violent areas of Pittsburgh. He once won a weightlifting competition by bench pressing 405 pounds, and eventually became the subject of folklore for the vicious hits he delivered on the field, some of which allegedly broke helmets. Archie played football up until his freshman year at Norfolk State. He broke his kneecap and never returned.
Years later, his youngest son, Aaron, began to make a name for himself while dominating older kids as a short, stumpy fullback and defensive lineman. But Aaron ate too much and worked too little. He was admittedly “lazy as a kid,” and Archie strove to change that. He lit a fire under Aaron by introducing him to weightlifting at the age of 12. Two years later, Archie ran out of workout partners and summoned Aaron to lift weights with him before work.
Wake-up time was 4:30 a.m. They met in the basement by 4:45 and worked out every muscle group for nearly two hours every weekday morning.
“He was a little lazy about it at first until he started seeing a change in his body,” Archie said. “That’s how it usually works when you’re lifting weights. You don’t like it because it hurts. But when you start seeing a change in your body, then and only then do you start doing it. And at that point, once he started seeing a change in his body, by the time he was coming out of high school -- I mean, man, he was waking me up every morning trying to get a workout.”
Dewayne Brown provides speed-and-agility training for athletes of all ages in the Pittsburgh area and has been working with Donald since he was in high school. Over the past two offseasons, while Donald held out in hopes of a lucrative contract extension, the two spent basically 14 of 24 months together. Donald began his workouts for the 2018 season in late January, only a couple of weeks after his Rams were eliminated by the Atlanta Falcons in the wild-card round of the playoffs.
On the first day, Donald told Brown he hadn’t yet played his best football.
“My eyes shot up,” Brown said. “But I believed him.”
Donald was the 2017 NFL Defensive Player of the Year. He was also named first-team All-Pro for the third consecutive time and registered 11 sacks in 14 games, tying a career high. And yet he swore there was more in him.
“I just knew I could play better,” Donald said. “I could clean things up as far as playing the run a little better, rushing the passer a little better.”
Donald somehow reached another level this season for a Rams team that finished the regular season 13-3 and will play the New England Patriots in the Super Bowl from Atlanta on Sunday (6:30 p.m. ET, CBS). He recorded 20.5 sacks, two shy of the overall record set by Michael Strahan and 2.5 more than the defensive tackle record set by Keith Millard. He tallied 73 pressures, according to NFL Next Gen Stats, more than anyone in the league despite facing an inordinate amount of double- and triple-teams as an interior lineman.
The presence of free-agent defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh was supposed to open everything up, but Los Angeles defensive coordinator Wade Phillips said opposing centers have been shifting over to double Donald on almost every pass-rush snap.
Rams offensive lineman Rodger Saffold doesn’t blame them.
“That would be my plan,” he said. “But if you don’t do it effectively, then he’s going to beat you. Because all he has to do is choose who he wants and then go from there. That quickness is a big part of his game, but it’s the power once he gets there that changes everything.”
Donald was double-teamed on 60.5 percent of his pass-rush snaps, the third-highest rate in the league, according to NFL Next Gen Stats. Still, his pass-rush win rate -- the number of times a player beats blocks within 2.5 seconds -- was an NFL-best 38.8 percent.
Donald became the only All-Pro to garner all 50 votes and is now the third defensive lineman since 1965 to be first-team All-Pro four times in five seasons, joining J.J. Watt and Reggie White. On Saturday, he’ll likely join Watt and Hall of Famer Lawrence Taylor as the only players to win back-to-back Defensive Player of the Year awards.
Some, like Brown, see a man who summoned extra motivation to validate his contract. Others, like Saffold, will tell you Donald has become smarter about anticipating where the help will come from, then beating the guard off the snap before it even arrives. Others notice sheer anger.
Aaron Donald's dad said his son was a little lazy and overweight before he began weightlifting with his father. Courtesy Donald family
“It’s almost like he takes it personal now,” Rams defensive lineman Ethan Westbrooks said.
“He’s playing with an attitude,” Donald’s older brother, Archie Jr., added. “Even though he got that big paycheck, he still plays with a chip on his shoulder.”
Archie’s heart skips a beat every time Aaron calls. They usually communicate through text messages, so the rare phone call triggers apprehension. That feeling swept over Archie on an otherwise lazy morning in late August, when his phone began to ring and Aaron was on the other side. Archie was lying on the couch watching "NFL Total Access" and hearing about all the players signing exorbitant contracts, none of whom included his son.
Then Aaron began to talk.
“Hang up your cleats,” he said. “You’re done.”
“You sure?” Archie asked, already knowing what that meant. “I’ve been waiting my whole life to hear that.”
“Retire,” Aaron told him. “Sit back and watch the games now, old fella, it’s all on me.”
Aaron had just agreed to a six-year, $135 million extension that included $87 million guaranteed and, for a brief moment -- until Khalil Mack signed a slightly larger deal with the Chicago Bears a day later -- made him the highest-paid defensive player in history.
Immediately after agreeing to terms, Aaron called his mom and dad.
“You could hear them crying over the phone,” he said.
Archie grew up without a father and vowed to be an enduring presence in his children’s lives. He ran a commercial cleaning company for a while, but it faded after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks that soured the economy. He later worked in construction, delivered phone books and recycled tires, piecing together odd jobs in order to make ends meet. His ex-wife, Anita Goggins, initially stayed home to care for the couple’s three children and later drove buses.
Aaron and Archie Jr., who is three years older, shared bunk beds as kids, and the thought of someday helping their parents retire was a frequent topic of conversation. Over the years, it evolved into a dream that drove Aaron. It pushed him through the early-morning workouts, sharpened his focus in the wake of persistent double-teams and triggered the aggression that made him unstoppable.
“We sat there together and it brought tears to our eyes, man,” said Archie Jr., a standout linebacker at Toledo who bounced around the NFL as an undrafted free agent before retiring in 2012. “I mean, to be a part of that, to be a part of that call, to be a part of seeing him call his parents, our parents, and tell them, ‘You're done, you don't have to work’ -- that’s something that I always wanted to do, and I got to be a part of it through my little brother.”
When Aaron won Defensive Rookie of the Year in 2014, he surprised his father with a pickup truck. For his 53rd, and most recent, birthday, he bought him a $40,000 Rolex Sky-Dweller watch (Aaron regrets telling Archie the price because he now refuses to wear it). Weeks after he signed the extension, Aaron’s mother and father met with his financial advisor, who presented a portfolio that promised $1 million for each -- with taxes paid off -- and a brand-new home of their choosing.
They both retired immediately, a moment Aaron thought about “a lot” as a kid.
“But it was just a dream,” he said. “You never think that you would have opportunities to do what you’re doing. You always dream things, but I feel like the stuff that I dreamed was small compared to what’s happening now.”
Rams general manager Les Snead sat in his office in Earth City, Missouri, in the lead-up to the 2014 draft watching tape of Donald at the University of Pittsburgh. Kevin Demoff, the chief operating officer, walked in and noted that it was “good point-of-attack film,” which is basically a highlight reel for offensive and defensive linemen.
“No,” Snead told Demoff, “this is just a normal game.”
Concerns about Donald’s height -- he’s listed at 6-foot-1 -- limited him to three scholarship offers coming out of high school and gave him a fifth-round grade after his junior season at Pitt. But he always jumped off the screen, from pee wee football to high school and the Atlantic Coast Conference.
“I say this in every interview, but nobody could ever block him from the first time he put on a helmet and shoulder pads,” Archie said. “There was no way you were going to block that kid. No way.”
Brown, the trainer, first met Donald at a scout camp in the summer before his senior year of high school. Donald forgot his cleats that day and dominated every other kid in sneakers. Five years later, Rams defensive line coach Bill Johnson, at that time coaching for the New Orleans Saints, saw Donald at the Senior Bowl and deemed him “by far the best player on the field.”
Mike Waufle, the Rams defensive line coach at the time, begged his team to pick him.
“I felt like he was the best college player I’d seen, even when I was in college football, at that position,” Waufle said. “A lot of people didn’t like him because he was undersized. I said he’s the best player that I’d seen at that position. I had him on my board higher than Jadeveon Clowney at that time. So, I made a big push.”
Donald became the best defensive player in college football by his senior year at Pittsburgh. Charles LeClaire/USA TODAY Sports
When Donald came to the Rams’ facility as part of a visit, Waufle brought him into the draft room, where Demoff, Snead and former head coach Jeff Fisher were watching film of quarterbacks. Waufle, a former Marine who stands 6-foot-4, crouched slightly and wrapped his arm around his new favorite player.
“I want you guys to meet Aaron Donald,” he said, a big smile on his face.
When the draft began, Waufle muted his TV and buried himself in paperwork. He looked up after the eighth pick, scrolled through the list of names and couldn’t believe Donald wasn’t among them. Four picks later, Waufle snuck back into the draft room.
“You got your guy,” Fisher told him.
“That was pretty cool,” Waufle said of the Rams taking Donald at No. 13 overall.
Shortly after Donald joined the team, Waufle pulled him aside. He told Donald he was going to hear a lot of talk about technique and that he wanted him to ignore all of it. “Just play,” Waufle told Donald. The fundamentals would come later, and the arsenal of pass-rush moves would expand with it. But Waufle didn’t want to bog Donald down with too much, fearing it would dilute his special gifts.
Waufle, who coached at the collegiate and professional levels for nearly 40 years until retiring after the 2017 season, was asked if he ever shared a similar message with another rookie.
“Never even thought about it,” he said. “Ever. Ever, ever. I wouldn’t do that with anybody else.”
Archie moved into the house Aaron bought him last month. His sons never let him sell the old place, which means that basement gym -- “The Dungeon,” as Aaron affectionately calls it -- remains intact. Archie, Archie Jr. and Aaron still work out there in the offseason from time to time. The new home is in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania, a stone’s throw from where Archie Jr. and Aaron attended high school.
On the immediate right of the front door is a framed photo of Aaron in a tuxedo, posing in front of seven collegiate awards after his breakout senior year. In the corner of that wall is the Bronko Nagurski Trophy for the best collegiate defensive player, which Aaron won on Archie’s birthday. Downstairs, in the new basement, lies a scrapbook that contains a perfect juxtaposition.
Donald led the NFL in sacks this season. Joe Robbins/Getty Images
On one page is a photo of a pre-teen Aaron posing on the sand in Virginia Beach, Virginia, using a boogie board to hide his pudgy stomach.
On another page is a photo of Aaron before the homecoming dance during high school, wearing a tight muscle shirt to show off his sculpted physique.
“The before and the after,” Archie said in a hearty laugh. “That’s the transformation right there.”
Archie, who attends all of the Rams’ home games, comforted Aaron through the first three weeks of the season, when the sacks weren’t coming and Aaron was starting to put pressure on himself to live up to his contract. He then watched his son go off, Aaron notching two or more sacks in seven of his next 13 games, a stretch that included 40 quarterback hits and four forced fumbles. His fourth-quarter prowess against the Seattle Seahawks, Minnesota Vikings, Kansas City Chiefs and Detroit Lions basically won games.
“I can’t believe he’s that good,” Archie said when asked what he thinks about when he watches Aaron play. “It’s the honest-to-God truth. I can’t believe he’s that good.”
Aaron’s work ethic has become almost as legendary as his play. Archie Jr. begs him to take vacations every offseason, but he won’t do it. If he messes up a drill during those grueling speed-and-agility sessions, he does it all over again. As a rookie, Aaron used to leave the facility with the rest of the team on Fridays, then would be the only one to come back, staying through the night to analyze tendencies of opposing offensive linemen.
“I would always leave,” Snead said, “and his car was always there.”
The determination stemmed from Archie’s workouts, though Archie is uncomfortable accepting credit.
“I just led him to the water,” he said. “It’s all Aaron now at this point.”
Aaron echoes that sentiment often. He made that point to his parents when he informed them that they could retire, and he did it again after breaking Millard’s record four months later, in the final sentence of the drawn-out text message that he sent to Archie.
“I work hard to make you and mommy millionaires,” Aaron wrote. “The best is yet to come.”The San Francisco 49ers should be one of the best stories in football this year.
Their former No. 1 overall draft pick is finally showing he isn’t a complete bust. Their rookie coach has brought an infectious swagger to what was a listless, uninspired locker room. They win games with daring trick plays and a physical, play-making defense.
They’re on the verge of resuscitating one the NFL's golden franchises.
And yet somehow, for some strange reasons, the 49ers’ story has failed to resonate across the country.
All the elements are there. So too is the validation after Sunday's impressive 27-20 win over the New York Giants.
But instead of basking in the same feel-good adulation the previously exciting Detroit Lions and Buffalo Bills enjoyed earlier this season, the 49ers are being received with a collective shrug.
America neither loves nor loathes them. It’s worse -- no one seems to care much.
The easy explanation is that the 49ers are winning in spectacularly ugly fashion. At times their games seem more like Australian rules football action with tough, physical defensive scrums and wild, improvisational offensive calls.
A more cynical view would be that the 49ers have played too many late afternoon games against awful opponents to register with East Coast viewers.
Both of those theories have merit. But what's really going on here is far more superficial.
No matter how many games they've already won, or how many fourth-quarter comebacks they’ve staged, the 49ers just aren’t a good story yet. There’s nothing lovable about them, nothing that grips you, no star player to connect to and root for.
Alex Smith, their redeemed-by-the-game quarterback, hasn’t been a big enough reason why San Francisco has been able to turn things around.
Frank Gore, who came into Sunday’s game having rushed for at least 100 yards in his past five games, has always been seen as a good NFL back, not an electrifying one.
Harbaugh has all the qualities to be a media darling and fan favorite – he’s charismatic, passionate, occasionally witty and gutsy -- but there just seems to be something about him that rubs people the wrong way.
Harbaugh, of course, doesn’t care much how he is perceived.
As coaches in his position tend to do, he’s effectively redirected any slight made against his team into feeding what had been a rather small chip on his team's shoulder.
“I believe in you guys. You guys in the media, I believe that you will find a way. As long as everything is written against us, we’ll be happy,” Harbaugh said in his postgame press conference.
“You can write whatever you want. The more against, us the better.”
It is a familiar refrain, but it works more often than you think it might. Never underestimate a player’s need to be liked by his peers and appreciated by his fans. But that’s not exactly what’s been happening to the 49ers.
The closest anyone important came to insulting San Francisco came last week when Giants defensive lineman Justin Tuck said, “I think they are asking Alex not to lose the game.”
If that’s the kind of thing that would get under Smith’s skin, he’s not nearly as mature and resilient as I thought.
No, what’s been happening to San Francisco is far more insulting. Fans and foes neither hate them nor love them. They’ve remained indifferent.
Sunday afternoon was the kind of game that should have ended that storyline. Not only did the 49ers beat a quality playoff-bound opponent, they did so without Gore, who injured his leg and ended his day with no yards on just six carries.
But instead of credit, the 49ers earned another shrug. Nationally their game was buried behind the Jets-Patriots game, the Falcons-Saints game and the Steelers-Bengals games, all of which had important divisional playoff implications.
The 49ers might be relevant again. They could even be dangerous in the NFC playoffs. But at least for now, they haven’t become a good enough story for anyone to notice.Initially, I didn’t believe it.
Then, I didn’t understand it.
And to this day, 17 years later, I still don’t.
There was Al Davis in his favorite position, with his foot on the neck of an adversary. (In Al’s world, of course, everybody, sooner or later, becomes an adversary.) And he walked away.
Thirteen years after defying the league and moving his Oakland Raiders to L.A., after turning back legions of league lawyers determined to push him back up north and winning the right to stay in L.A., he had NFL owners meekly courting him.
It was May of 1995 and the issue was Al’s very public dissatisfaction with the Los Angeles Coliseum and his favorable response to the appeals of Oakland officials to come back home. (All is forgiven, eventually, it seems.)
On the final day of a league meeting in Jacksonville, Florida, NFL owners had approved by a vote of 27-1 with two abstentions, a resolution supporting a plan to build a $200 million, privately-financed stadium in Inglewood on property owned by Hollywood Park.
A three-man committee had been appointed to work with Davis and R. D. Hubbard, CEO of the racetrack to draft a lease and complete an agreement that would allow a second team, one from the NFC, to also use the stadium.
Under the proposed timetable, the Raiders could be in their new home in two years, with a second team coming to L.A. in 1998.
In addition, the stadium would be guaranteed at least one Super Bowl, probably in 2001, with a second one, tentatively in 2004, contingent on a second team coming to Los Angeles.
Leaving the meeting, Al got into a limo. I joined him briefly for a quick interview.
“Well,” I said, “you got what you wanted. It’s a done deal, right?”
That familiar look of defiance came over his face. Nobody tells Al Davis when a deal is done.
“We’ll see,” he said. End of interview.
Oh, I thought as the limo pulled away, that’s just Al being Al.
There were certainly some loose ends to tie up, some very expensive loose ends. While Davis had agreed to put up $20 million toward the completion of the project, it was still $30 million short.
Other details of the proposed deal included:
An obligation by the Raiders to play in the area for the next two seasons while the stadium was under construction.
The Raiders receiving Super Bowl tickets equal to the number of club seats sold up to 10,000.
A shutdown by Hollywood Park of its gambling operation during the two Super Bowls, a requirement Hubbard had agreed to.
And still to be negotiated with the three-man committee was a proposal for the second team to reimburse Davis for half the money he would put into the stadium.
This second tenant was a huge point of contention for Davis, who didn’t want to share the spotlight.
“The NFL’s option is to put the second team in there,” he said, “And, for doing that, you get a second Super Bowl. It’s Hollywood Park or the Raiders’ option to say, ‘No, we don’t want a second team.’”
As it turned, Davis didn’t even want to be the first team. A month later, he left town and later sued the league, claiming it had sabotaged the team’s effort to remain in L.A. Davis lost the case and subsequent appeals that went all the way to the California Supreme Court.
I think sometimes about how different the local landscape would be if Davis had taken the Hollywood Park deal. The NFL would have been in L.A. for these past 17 years. Inglewood would have remained a central location in the local sports scene.
The racetrack might be thriving.
Jerry Buss may well have kept his Lakers at the Forum, with a football stadium next door, and might have even co-promoted events at the two venues in a partnership with Hollywood Park.
AEG might not have built Staples Center without the Lakers. As a result, there might be no L.A. Live and all that goes with it. Instead, the downtown area has thrived and may be about to get even bigger and more prominent if the construction of the proposed Farmers Field goes through.
And Al Davis is back where he started, with a second-tier team playing in a second-tier stadium in a second-tier market.
I didn’t I get it then.
I don’t get it now.
Steve Springer is a longtime Los Angeles area sports writer and a special contributor to ESPNLA.comMIAMI BEACH, Fla. -- NFL agents Adisa Bakari and Jeff Whitney experienced a hint of deja vu this past weekend. As the annual Sports and Entertainment Group business retreat -- which started in 2007 -- reached a decade milestone, it was highlighted with an appearance from NFLPA executive director DeMaurice Smith, who spoke directly to players about key issues facing the league.
"It’s funny that we've kind of come full circle," Whitney told ESPN.com Saturday. "The first one that we did, we actually took our players over to the [NFL] Players Union. So many years later we've kind of come full circle and DeMaurice is here.
"It's grown exponentially. We've added different components every year, and I think we will continue to do that."
About 30 NFL players attended the annual Sports and Entertainment Group business retreat. The three-day event in Miami included agents Jeff Whitney, left, and Adisa Bakari, center. NFLPA executive director DeMaurice Smith, right, also made an appearance. Mark Tucker, Sports and Entertainment Group
About 30 NFL players -- including Patriots running back James White, Buffalo Bills quarterback Tyrod Taylor, Pittsburgh Steelers running back Le'Veon Bell and Kansas City Chiefs sacks leader Dee Ford -- took part in the three-day retreat, which was held in Miami Beach for the third consecutive year.
The theme was to address "The State of the Union," and Smith's appearance was a first for the retreat and offered players a chance to have an up-close and open dialogue with their union leader.
"We want to make sure that players are communicating directly with their union reps," Bakari said. "So we want to have the president talk directly to them about some of the issues that are hot-button issues that are currently being addressed. Obviously player health is always at the forefront. We're preparing to go into a new negotiation and a new CBA in the coming years, and what are the issues that are going to be addressed during that process?
"Sometimes players go their entire careers without having a personal relationship with their president, and we want to make sure that's not the case with our clients."
In addition to this year's "State of the Union" theme, the retreat also put a heavy focus on preparing players for life after football. According to a 2009 Sports Illustrated article, by the time NFL players have been retired for two years, 78 percent have gone bankrupt or have come under financial stress because of joblessness or divorce. Bakari and Whitney drew attention to several recent headlines about NFL players losing millions of dollars, such as former NFL running back Clinton Portis, former linebacker Patrick Willis and Dallas Cowboys running back Darren McFadden.
There already are several success stories within the group. For example, Detroit Lions safety Don Carey owns 15 rental properties and is a published author. Former NFL running back Maurice Jones-Drew is a successful broadcaster for the NFL Network. Longtime veterans Antoine Bethea of the Arizona Cardinals and Kendall Langford of the Indianapolis Colts teamed up to open three "I Love Juice" bars.
"I wish I would have started earlier," Bethea told his fellow players during a panel discussion Saturday. "Focus on after football today. Think big picture."
Bethea and Langford didn't know each other until they began attending Bakari's annual retreat. Now, they are good friends and business partners.
"That's the idea for them to forge personal relationships that eventually lead to business relationships," Bakari said. "When you see that materialize and you see those relationships prosper, then it shows that we're doing our job and the retreat has a real effect."
The average NFL career lasts about three years. A player's life after football will last much longer, which was a point that was driven home several times this past weekend.
"At some point they're all going to transition," Whitney said. "We want to make sure their transition is as seamless and smooth as possible."It’s been 10 years since maybe the most shocking game in NFL history.
One word causes a combination of nostalgia, frustration, bewilderment and laughter between the 2008 Miami Dolphins and New England Patriots: Wildcat.
The Patriots, riding a 21-game regular-season winning streak, were 12.5-point favorites against the lowly 0-2 Dolphins, who were 1-15 the season before. But Miami had a trick just waiting to be unleashed.
Dolphins running backs Ronnie Brown and Ricky Williams, sharing a backfield, ran a college offense to perfection and made a respected Patriots defense look silly in a 38-13 victory in Foxborough, Massachusetts, on Sept. 21, 2008.
“We didn’t have any idea that was coming,” former Patriots linebacker and ESPN analyst Tedy Bruschi said. “I laugh at it now. But we were so pissed that day. I was hopping around. I didn't know what I was doing. It was a shock to the system."
Best of NFL Nation • Can Seahawks reload the L.O.B.?
• Washington's identity might mean defensive pick
• Flacco out to prove he can still do it
• Jeff Legwold's top 100 draft prospects
• NFL draft: Mock drafts, prospects and more
With Brown in the shotgun at quarterback and Williams coming in motion toward him, it took just six plays to gain 118 yards and four touchdowns, and for the Wildcat craze to successfully move from the college game to the pros.
“That was probably my No. 1 or No. 2 favorite season ever. It felt like we revolutionized the NFL,” Williams said. “There is an invisible wall between college football and the NFL. There may be some good reasons, but it seems like a lot of it is just tradition and habit. We exploited that.”
Miami’s Wildcat, which lasted for one wildly successful 2008 season before receding in 2009, was a new twist on the old-school, single-wing offense. It became the basis for several current NFL offensive trends, such as RPOs (run-pass options) and the read-option running attack.
ESPN spoke with several former Dolphins and Patriots from that game to relive the improbable day when it was released, and all that transpired before and after it.
The installation
The Dolphins hired Tony Sparano as head coach in 2008 following the disastrous 2007 campaign. Bill Parcells, the Dolphins' executive vice president of football operations, made an underrated hire to bring on former Arkansas offensive coordinator David Lee as quarterbacks coach. Lee ran the Wildcat at Arkansas with running backs Darren McFadden and Felix Jones.
The Dolphins, stuck in quarterback purgatory, signed Chad Pennington that offseason. But they hoped to build their offense around their two best offensive players: Brown and Williams.
Williams: “In training camp one day, Lee put it on the board. Most of us looked at each other and said, 'We’re not doing this high school s---.'”
Brown: “When we put it in practice, it didn’t work. It looked bad. Our defense was ragging us for the longest, like y’all need to throw this out, what is this?”
Former Dolphins linebacker Channing Crowder: "It was gimmicky. We were like, 'Oh, this is cute.' We used to talk a lot of s--- when we stopped it in practice. Defensively, we were surprised that s--- worked as long as it did."
Former Dolphins defensive coordinator and current Jets head coach Todd Bowles: “Boy, we had some coaches who came up with some things. I was like, 'What is this?' at first. But we weren’t putting the ball down the field very much, so it was a good gimmick for us to use at the time.”
Brown: “We had it fully installed for a few weeks before they called it for the New England game. We were 0-2 going into New England coming off a 1-15 season; we didn’t have anything to lose. What better time to pull out all the stops? My first thought is, 'I can’t mess this up, because we’re not going to get another opportunity.'"
Tony Sparano and quarterback Chad Pennington look on from the sideline on that September day when Sparano collected his first victory as an NFL head coach. Stew Milne/USA TODAY Sports
The details and responsibilities
After an ugly 31-10 Week 2 loss at the Arizona Cardinals, Sparano called up Lee on the team plane home to discuss a plan to somehow beat the Patriots. They decided to put the Wildcat in that week.
Brown had a baseball background, so he volunteered to be the quarterback in the Wildcat after it was introduced. Williams was put in as the wing back. Pennington and another running back, Patrick Cobbs, played receiver. The offensive line was unbalanced and relied on strong zone-blocking to make it hard for defenders to figure out what was going on.
Former Patriots safety and current NBC analyst Rodney Harrison: “When you see a surprise element, we tend to overthink things instead of simplifying things. We got to panicking and fussing amongst each other and arguing and overthinking things. We were a good, attacking defense that dictated what offenses gave us. This offense had us on our heels and dictated what we did.”
Williams: “We only had about five or six plays. We had a power, a counter, the sweep to me, a reverse, a reverse pass and Ronnie had a fake rollout counter pass. We practiced them every day for a half hour, even the trick plays. We got really good at it.”
Bruschi: “You see that type of formation, I thought I had to attack it. But when I attacked the line of scrimmage, the offensive linemen were getting angles on me. It really did play mind games on me in terms of what parts of the formation were my responsibility. Any type of delay from a defense, you’ll get beat every time.”
Former Patriots defensive lineman Jarvis Green: “My job was to hit the RB as hard as I can. The biggest thing was not to be a hero. I had to make sure they didn’t get outside the defensive ends because that makes the play more dangerous.”
Williams: "It wasn’t a matter of play design as much as it was different. The key to beating the Patriots is to confuse them. Their strong suit is their preparation. They scout so well. They have such a good idea of what the other team is going to do. I remember them being frustrated on the sidelines because they didn’t know what to do.”
Execution
The first Wildcat play came on second-and-goal late in the first quarter of a scoreless game. Brown took the shotgun snap, faked the sweep handoff to Williams and ran a power play directly into the end zone for an easy six points. The Patriots defenders all looked around at each other. Coach Bill Belichick was yelling into his headset. What was that?
Crowder: “As soon as they put it in against the Patriots, the whole defense jumped up and walked to the sideline. We knew how it looked against us and thought, 'These m-----f------ about to embarrass themselves.'”
Brown: "I remember their adjustments. When we first got into the formation, we saw the D-line sliding one way and the linebackers trying to realign them. It was unbalanced set, so you hear guys yelling, ‘No, over here.’ They kept changing up, but none of it worked. They couldn’t make the right adjustment. We caught them off-guard. It was special because it was the Patriots, Bill Belichick, the rivalry and the masters of preparation.”
Harrison: "It was one of those nights where I couldn’t sleep. I was always haunted by Ronnie Brown and Ricky Williams.”
Bill Belichick's vaunted defense was left thoroughly confused by the Dolphins. "Well, there is not too much to say here," the Patriots coach said after his team's first regular-season loss in 21 months. Alan Diaz/AP Photo
And he can pass ...
Harrison realized what was going on halfway through the game and wanted the defense to calm down. He reminded his New England teammates that they had a defensive check to revert to when chaos happened.
But everything went out of the window midway through the third quarter when Brown took a Wildcat snap and Patriots were there to stop him -- until he lifted his left arm to throw a touchdown to streaking tight end Anthony Fasano to put Miami ahead 28-6.
Bruschi: "Once we got down that it’s Ronnie Brown back there at QB, we thought we may have it. Then all of a sudden he’s throwing the ball. Then he’s left-handed. We didn’t know what was going on. I remember Fasano punching the ball after the TD in celebration. And that’s when I knew they got us from everywhere. Our heads were spinning that day.”
Brown: "For me, it was a great opportunity to play QB. I was pumped. I had never played QB on any real level. It was pretty cool. Me being left-handed, I think, caught people off guard. I still remember rolling out the left and trying to make sure I didn’t miss Fasano.”
If you had Ronnie Brown on your fantasy team in 2008, you probably won in Week 3. He rushed for 113 yards and four touchdowns and threw for another score, a 19-yarder to Anthony Fasano. Stew Milne/USA TODAY Sports
'The utmost frustration'
The final dagger came at the start of the fourth quarter, with the Patriots attempting a comeback -- if they could just get a stop. Pennington (17-of-20, 226 yards in the game) was dicing the defense up with his arm. Brown and Williams (finished with 211 combined rushing yards) were going wild on the ground.
Brown had one more big play left, a 62-yard touchdown right up the middle out of the Wildcat to put the Dolphins ahead 35-13. He broke a couple of tackles and took it to the house.
Green: “Ronnie Brown was a monster. He was such a strong runner. He was so good at the read-option. He was the most dangerous man. Strong legs, strong instincts and as we found out, he could throw.”
Harrison: "That was the utmost frustration. We prided ourselves on being very prepared and being able to adapt to anything in the game. We were so surprised. We were confused. You saw the frustration on the sidelines. We were bumping and running into each other.”
Dolphins radio analyst Joe Rose: “Bill Belichick has never been so fooled before. Belichick had never been so unprepared before. He couldn’t make adjustments even at halftime. He couldn’t stop all the options, especially with the motion guy added. Ronnie and Ricky were the two perfect guys to run it. I kept thinking, 'Oh my God, they’re doing this to the best in the business.'"
Williams: “[Patriots defensive end Mike] Vrabel and Bruschi were pissed. On Ronnie’s TD, I was running almost right next to him. Vrabel was coming at him, and I just threw at him low -- it was kind of a cheap shot, but it was legal -- I wanted any shot I could get at the Patriots. He got mad and he jumped on me or punched me. Later in the game, we were in our four-minute offense running the clock out. They tackled me after a couple-yard gain and a couple of the players stomped on me. And I remember having a big bruise on my shin from their frustration.”
Postgame
After the game, the Dolphins were the talk of the sports world. Nobody had made the Patriots look so unprepared for a game before. But nobody could have expected what the Dolphins had coming.
Rose: “We haven’t had anything like that before or since. It was unbelievable. New England's fans walked out of the stadium in disbelief. The Patriots looked in disarray. But it was as much fun as I’ve had doing games in 15 years. Ronnie and Ricky, man, it was just awesome.”
Belichick that night in his postgame news conference: “Well, there is not too much to say here. I thought that Miami played a real good football game. They did everything a lot better than we did. They outplayed us. They outcoached us. They certainly dominated on offense and defense. ... We’ve got a lot of work to do. I know we are better than that.”
Crowder: "I remember we were in Foxborough leaving the game headed to the buses. I walked past a TV, Belichick had his presser on, and I remember he said, 'They got us. They did everything better than us.' I remember him saying something of the effect that we’ve got a lot of work to do and it felt was in slow motion. I remember him admitting -- Bill Belichick, the greatest coach of all time, saying he got outcoached. That should be some flattering stuff for Tony Sparano and David Lee. But I remembered thinking next time we played them would be different.”
The Dolphins celebrated with the traditional dousing of coach Tony Sparano in ice water on the day he undoubtedly outcoached Bill Belichick. Winslow Townson/AP Photo
Aftermath
The Patriots went down to Miami nine weeks later and shut down the Wildcat. New England held the Dolphins to just 66 rushing yards -- only 27 came via Wildcat -- by bringing pressure off the edges and inverting its defensive players. The Patriots forced Miami to convert back into a traditional offense and won 48-28.
But otherwise, Miami was successful with the Wildcat. The Dolphins went 11-5, winning the AFC East. It’s the last time the Dolphins won the division or in Foxborough. In 2009, the Dolphins drafted Pat White in the second round to run the QB version of the Wildcat, but it was not nearly as successful. Pennington, Brown and White all suffered severe injuries. The Dolphins went 7-9 and eventually they all split up.
But the impact and memories of that season live on.
Harrison: "You still see people use that. I think the RPO thing came from that -- using a QB inside of a RB to do that. People weren’t afraid to use it as a surprise element in the NFL anymore. It would never survive in the NFL as a full-time offense. The Ravens ran a straight option play in the red zone with Lamar Jackson."
Williams: “I remember the running back room most from that year. With the Wildcat, there was four RBs on the field. We took a lot of pride in that being ours. We loved it.”
Crowder: "They made chicken salad out of chicken crap. Coaches utilized the hell out of our best two players -- Ricky Williams, Ronnie Brown. I remember Tony Sparano, you would see the cockiness come over him. They were 100 percent, flat-out out-coaching people. It brought a little swag out of Tony that he didn’t naturally have. He wasn’t a crap-talker or arrogant, but it would come out when he talked about the Wildcat.”MINNEAPOLIS -- The Minnesota Vikings played their coldest home game in 38 years on Sunday, when they beat the Carolina Panthers in 12-degree temperatures at TCF Bank Stadium.
As both teams dealt with the freezing temperatures, Fox cameras showed sideline attendants using heaters to warm up game balls, which is against league rules. NFL vice president of officiating Dean Blandino said Monday morning on NFL Network that officials warned both the Vikings and Panthers not to heat up the balls during Sunday's game, and would remind teams this week not to heat game balls.
"You can't do anything with the footballs in terms of any artificial, whether you're heating them up, whether it's a regular game ball or kicking ball, you can't do anything to the football," Blandino said. "So that was noticed during the game, both teams were made aware of it during the game and we will certainly remind the clubs as we get into more cold weather games that you can't do anything with the football in terms of heating them up with those sideline heaters."
By rule, the home team is responsible for providing the game balls. The footage shown on NFL Network is from the Vikings' sideline, though there are attendants from both teams on both sidelines and a league source said the Vikings weren't heating up the balls during the game.
Zimmer said he hadn't heard anything from the league about it on Monday, adding, "Somebody told me (Carolina's) ball boys were doing it."
Ball boys are allowed to carry hand heaters, as Fox officiating analyst Mike Pereira pointed out, but they are not allowed to put game balls in front of sideline heaters. The Vikings have two December home games on their schedule -- this Sunday against the New York Jets and Dec. 28 against the Chicago Bears. After the league sent out a warning, it stands to reason they'll be watching the sidelines closely in cold-weather games this month.It's becoming a trend in college football for top draft-eligible players to sit out bowl games to avoid the risk of injury with a significant payday looming. The overwhelming majority of the players who will enter the NFL in 2018, though, will suit up for their team in a bowl game.
Here's a look at some of the players NFL scouts will be paying close attention to Saturday:
Louisville vs. No. 23 Mississippi State, TaxSlayer Bowl, 12 p.m. ET, ESPN and ESPN App
QB Lamar Jackson, Louisville
Kiper position rank: No. 7 quarterback
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 88 overall
Statistically, Jackson had a better season than in 2016, when he won the Heisman Trophy, and he is widely expected to leave for the NFL with a year of eligibility remaining.
More College Football Playoff coverage • Tide punctuate decade of dominance
• Tagovailoa becomes unlikely legend
• Georgia's title drought continues
• Future still bright for Bulldogs
• Behind the scenes of CFP title game
• Full College Football Playoff coverage
• 2017-18 bowl schedule and results
• Capital One Bowl Mania
OT Martinas Rankin, Mississippi State
Kiper position rank: No. 4 offensive tackle
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 32 overall
Rankin accepted a Senior Bowl invitation after a season in which he was named second-team All-SEC. He started 18 games in two seasons for Mississippi State
Louisville CB Jaire Alexander (No. 7 CB) announced last week he would sit out the game in preparation for the draft.
Iowa State at No. 20 Memphis, AutoZone Liberty Bowl, 12:30 p.m. ET, ABC and ESPN App
WR Anthony Miller, Memphis
Kiper position rank: No. 3 wide receiver
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 138 overall
Miller's 187 catches over the past two seasons are the most in FBS. The one-time walk-on needs four catches and 28 receiving yards to break his own single-season school records from 2016.
No. 11 Washington vs. No. 9 Penn State, PlayStation Fiesta Bowl, 4 p.m. ET, ESPN and ESPN App
DT Vita Vea, Washington
Kiper position rank: No. 2 defensive tackle
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 28 overall
Vea could have departed for the draft following the 2016 season but returned for his junior year in which he was named the Pac-12 Defensive Player of the Year.
RB Saquon Barkley, Penn State
Kiper position rank: No. 1 running back
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 2 overall
Barkley topped the 1,000-yard rushing mark for the third straight season (1,134) and caught 47 passes for 594 yards. He figures to be the first running back off the board should he declare, which is the clear expectation.
TE Mike Gesicki, Penn State
Kiper position rank: No. 3 tight end
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 70 overall
A finalist for the Mackey Award, given to the nation's best at the position, Gesicki has more catches than any tight end in Penn State history (123).
OG Brendan Mahon, Penn State
Kiper position rank: No. 7 offensive guard
A key piece on the line that blocked for Barkley, Mahon has started 39 games in four seasons.
No. 6 Wisconsin at No. 10 Miami, Capital One Orange Bowl, 8 p.m. ET, ESPN and ESPN App
FB Austin Ramesh, Wisconsin
Kiper position rank: No. 6 fullback/h-back
In 39 career games (19 starts), Ramesh, who is primarily a blocker, has carried 32 times for 140 yards, with five touchdowns.
FB Alec Ingold, Wisconsin
Kiper position rank: No. 10 fullback/h-back
Ingold figures to return for his senior year and should enter the 2018 season as one of the nation's best fullbacks.
TE Troy Fumagalli, Wisconsin
Kiper position rank: No. 7 tight end
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 101 overall
A former walk-on, Fumagalli caught 43 passes for 516 yards and four touchdowns during the regular season.
LB T.J. Edwards, Wisconsin
Kiper position rank: No. 6 inside linebacker
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 130 overall
Edwards was the defensive MVP in last season's Cotton Bowl, and he recorded 75 tackles in 13 starts this season.
OG KC McDermott, Miami
Kiper position rank: No. 9 offensive guard
Scouts Inc. ranking: No. 184 overall
McDermott was named third-team All-ACC. He has started a team-high 33 straight games.
S Jaquan Johnson, Miami
Kiper position rank: No. 10 safety
In his first year as a full-time starter, Johnson was named first-team All-ACC.Florida State cornerback Xavier Rhodes and running back Chris Thompson have decided to enter the NFL draft, the first in what could be a wave of more players to leave.
Rhodes, a junior, said he has been projected as a late-first-round or early-second-round pick.
"I'm gone," Rhodes told ESPN on Tuesday. "I did all I could in college. If I was to come back, I don't think my status would be getting any better."
Thompson, who sustained season-ending injuries the last two seasons, told The Orlando Sentinel he would also head to the draft instead of trying to get a sixth year at Florida State.
Defensive end Brandon Jenkins has already declared himself eligible for the draft. Two more players -- defensive end Bjoern Werner and safety Lamarcus Joyner, said after the Orange Bowl game Tuesday they would take a few days before announcing whether they, too, would leave school for the NFL draft.FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- When considering a starting point for what has become one of the NFL’s better rivalries of the past decade -- New England Patriots versus Baltimore Ravens -- the last meeting between the teams on ESPN’s Monday Night Football seems like the right place to start.
Rewind the clock to Dec. 3, 2007, set the scene at Baltimore's M&T Bank Stadium, and consider the dynamics in play.
The Patriots were 11-0 and had been putting up big offensive numbers before a late-season slowdown, and there was widespread talk of a possible undefeated season. The Ravens, under then-coach Brian Billick, were 4-7 and essentially playing for pride.
The Patriots-Ravens rivalry doesn't have as many chapters as some others but has featured a number of entertaining, high-stakes games. David Butler II/USA TODAY Sports
It all turned into an unforgettable night, with Billick, at one point, blowing kisses in the direction of Patriots safety Rodney Harrison.
What made it unforgettable, more than anything else, was the ending. The Ravens led 24-17 early in the fourth quarter, then 24-20 with less than two minutes to play, before an epic meltdown. On fourth down, Ravens defensive coordinator Rex Ryan called a timeout before the Patriots' snap, negating what would have been a stop to win the game. But on the next play, the Patriots appeared to be stopped on fourth-and-1, only to have the play not count because of a false-start penalty.
Tom Brady made the most of the Patriots' third chance, ultimately finding receiver Jabar Gaffney for an 8-yard score with 44 seconds remaining. As emotions boiled over after New England scored the go-ahead touchdown, Ravens linebacker Bart Scott picked up an officials’ penalty flag and fired it into the crowd.
He was penalized twice for unsportsmanlike conduct, as Baltimore imploded.
And after the 27-24 Patriots victory, the rivalry, some would say, was officially on at that point.
Fast-forward to this coming Monday, which marks the 10th Patriots-Ravens game since the start of the 2007 season, and it’s fitting that the game will be aired on ESPN. The two games are perfect bookends of a decade of memorable meetings between the franchises that at one point had Patriots coach Bill Belichick referring to the Ravens as being like an AFC East opponent.
There’s familiarity.
Plenty of respect (Belichick recommended John Harbaugh for Billick's old job back in '08).
Some contempt.
And usually some form of high stakes involved. This season is no different: The 10-2 Patriots are chasing AFC home-field advantage, and the Ravens (7-5) are playing some of their best football and positioning themselves for their own postseason run.
Since the ’07 game, the teams have met in four playoff games, all at Gillette Stadium, with a 2-2 split. The Ravens’ 28-13 win on Jan. 20, 2013, in the AFC Championship Game set the stage for their Super Bowl victory over the San Francisco 49ers.
The Patriots, of course, exacted a measure of revenge on Jan. 10, 2015, in the divisional round of the playoffs. In the game, the Pats used trick plays in which they declared eligible receivers ineligible, enraging Harbaugh in the process. That helped spark a come-from-behind, 35-31 win en route to the Pats' Super Bowl victory over the Seattle Seahawks.
Three seasons before, in the AFC title game, Billy Cundiff missed a potential game-tying 32-yard field goal with 15 seconds remaining, ending Baltimore's season in heartbreak. The kick wouldn’t have been needed had receiver Lee Evans made a touchdown catch two plays before, but defensive back Sterling Moore broke up the play in the end zone.
Those games, and those moments, really just scratch the surface of the rivalry. In terms of total years, the history isn’t plentiful between the Patriots and Ravens, but it has still emerged as one of the best things the NFL has had to offer over the past decade.
So get your popcorn ready.
Patriots-Ravens, since ’07, has not failed to produce memorable moments.MINNEAPOLIS –--The New England Patriots have been the NFL’s dominant team since 2001, with a chance to win their sixth Super Bowl on Sunday, which sparked the following question to commissioner Roger Goodell on Wednesday: Is that a good thing for the NFL?
Super Bowl LII Coverage The Eagles upset the Patriots to secure their first Super Bowl victory. • Eagles take crown » | No Pats' comeback »
• How Eagles beat Pats at their own game »
• Inside 'Philly Special' fourth-down call »
• Tom Brady was brilliant, left broken »
• Officiating grades » | All the records »
• The biggest moments from the game »
• What should Philly do with Foles? »
• Now what? Execs debate Pats' future
• 'Bettor X' cashes in on big Eagles bets »
Goodell, speaking at his annual Super Bowl news conference, believes it is.
“It’s really remarkable that they’re going for their third Super Bowl in four years in this kind of a system, where keeping that group together, changing whatever they need to change -- whether it’s players or coaches -- they do that in a way and still create success,” he said.
“I just marvel at that. I think our other clubs marvel at that. I think fans marvel at that. I think the balance of having new teams with having teams that continue to find ways to win is a great thing for the NFL. And I think it’s a great thing for our fans, so you can continue to win, and there are also teams that can surprise you. That’s what makes our game special.”
Goodell pointed out that eight of the 12 teams that qualified for the playoffs this season were new to the postseason from last season.
Patriots owners Robert Kraft and Jonathan Kraft attended the news conference.They say it takes three years to truly evaluate an NFL draft class, but the New Orleans Saints shifted that process into hyperdrive last season with one of the best rookie hauls in league history.
Running back Alvin Kamara and cornerback Marshon Lattimore became the first duo to sweep the league's Offensive and Defensive Rookie of the Year awards in 50 years, with both making the Pro Bowl. A total of five rookies became starters for the Saints, including offensive tackle Ryan Ramczyk and safety Marcus Williams, who looked like potential Pro Bowlers.
NFL Future Power Rankings • 1-32 projection for next three seasons
• What can Saints do for an encore?
• Video: Are Eagles set up for the future?
• Roundtable: Teams in mix for dynasty run
• Evan Engram heads class of next TE stars
As a result, the Saints ended a three-year playoff drought and came one play away from the NFC Championship Game. Now they have soared a staggering 22 spots in ESPN's Future NFL Power Rankings -- from No. 25 at this time last summer to No. 3.
A year ago, ESPN's group of insiders expressed concerns about then-38-year-old quarterback Drew Brees heading into the final year of his contract and New Orleans' roster being full of holes.
Now, Brees has re-upped for two more years and the Saints suddenly have one of the league's most balanced rosters after landing seven players in the Pro Bowl.
So what can they do for an encore?
Kamara, Lattimore and third-year star receiver Michael Thomas all insisted they won't rest on their laurels -- that they want to accomplish even more this season, be ranked among the all-time greats and "legends" of the game while leading New Orleans back to a Super Bowl. All three have certainly flashed the talent to do so.
But what does history tell us about how rookie classes like this have fared?
ESPN Stats & Information dug up the six best draft classes since the NFL went to the current seven-round format in 1994, based on Pro Football Reference's "approximate value" rating it assigns to every player in the NFL. It's an inexact measure, but it's the best way to compare players across all position groups and eras.
Here's how they rank, according to the total first-year AV of each class:
This lofty ranking is all about the two breakout stars, Dak Prescott and Ezekiel Elliott, who burst onto the scene and led Dallas to a 13-3 record and the NFC's No. 1 seed before losing in the divisional round of the playoffs. But the jury is still out on this group after the Cowboys fell to 9-7 last season and missed the playoffs -- largely because of Elliott's six-game suspension for violating the league's personal-conduct policy. Prescott's performance also dropped off slightly (he went from four interceptions in 2016 to 13 in 2017). But the future obviously remains bright for both. Maliek Collins and Anthony Brown had similar production as contributors in Year 2.
2012 Cleveland Browns (Total AV 44) Players Total AV Quarterback Brandon Weeden 8 Offensive tackle Mitchell Schwartz 7 Running back Trent Richardson 6 Defensive lineman Billy Winn 6 * Wide receiver Josh Gordon 6 Linebacker James-Michael Johnson 4 Defensive tackle John Hughes 3 Wide receiver Travis Benjamin 3 Cornerback Trevin Wade 1 * Supplemental draft
Who better than the Browns to provide the ultimate cautionary tale? This group had a total AV of 57 among all rookies (including undrafted standouts such as LB Craig Robertson and DB Tashaun Gipson). Nevertheless, they crashed and burned at an astonishing rate, going from five wins in 2012 to 4, 7, 3, 1 and 0 over the next five years through multiple regime changes. Brandon Weeden started 15 games as a rookie with a 5-10 record, but was released after going 0-5 the next season. Trent Richardson ran for 946 yards and 11 touchdowns as a rookie, but was traded two games into the next season and has since flamed out. Josh Gordon was sensational as a sophomore, leading the NFL with 1,646 receiving yards in 2013. But he went on to miss a whopping total of 56 games because of suspension while battling drug and alcohol issues before finally being reinstated late last season. Only Mitchell Schwartz has been a solid starter throughout his career -- but he bolted for Kansas City as soon as he became a free agent.
2017 New Orleans Saints (Total AV 42) Players Total AV Running back Alvin Kamara 15 Offensive tackle Ryan Ramczyk 10 Cornerback Marshon Lattimore 8 Safety Marcus Williams 6 Linebacker Alex Anzalone 2 Defensive end Trey Hendrickson 1
Kamara's rookie season was astonishing -- especially considering he was a third-round pick from Tennessee who was expected to play a part-time role alongside veterans Mark Ingram and Adrian Peterson. Kamara wound up setting the NFL record for most yards per offensive touch (7.7) among players with at least 200 touches in a season. And he joined Gale Sayers as the only two rookies with at least five rushing touchdowns, five receiving TDs and a kickoff-return TD. Lattimore was just as valuable, emerging as a desperately needed No. 1 cornerback to spark the Saints' remarkable resurgence on defense. His AV seems way too low -- though it might be a result of teams being afraid to throw his way. Ramczyk was expected to learn behind veteran Zach Strief in 2016, but wound up playing every snap because of injuries for an offense that led the NFL in yards per rush and yards per pass attempt. Williams was also vital to New Orleans' defensive turnaround, with five interceptions including the playoffs, before his infamous missed tackle in the "Minnesota Miracle."
1996 Miami Dolphins (Total AV 42) Players Total AV Linebacker Zach Thomas 10 Running back Karim Abdul-Jabbar 8 Defensive tackle Daryl Gardener 6 Defensive end Shane Burton 5 Safety Shawn Wooden 5 Fullback Stanley Pritchett 3 Running back Jerris McPhail 3 Guard Jeff Buckey 2
Jimmy Johnson is known for turning around the Cowboys in the late '80s and early '90s. But his first draft class as coach of the Dolphins in 1996 wasn't too shabby. Zach Thomas (a fifth-round pick) became a seven-time Pro Bowler and one of the leading tacklers in NFL history, with more than 1,600 in 13 seasons. Karim Abdul-Jabbar had nearly 3,500 yards from scrimmage and 33 touchdowns in three seasons before his career fizzled. Daryl Gardener was a solid starter for the better part of six years. And the Dolphins also landed all-time great special-teams ace Larry Izzo and longtime NFL kicker Joe Nedney as undrafted free agents. This group had a good run – the Dolphins went 8-8 in '96, followed by five consecutive playoff appearances and seven straight winning seasons as they transitioned from QB Dan Marino to QB Jay Fiedler. Alas, they never made it past the divisional round of the playoffs (and still haven't to this day).
2012 Seattle Seahawks (Total AV 39) Players Total AV Quarterback Russell Wilson 16 Linebacker Bobby Wagner 10 Running back Robert Turbin 5 Linebacker Bruce Irvin 3 Cornerback Jeremy Lane 2 Guard J.R. Sweezy 2 Defensive end Greg Scruggs 1
Now, this class was a true game-changer. Seattle went 11-5 in 2012, then went 13-3 and won the first Super Bowl in franchise history a year later. This class helped lead the Seahawks to five straight playoff appearances and six straight winning seasons. Russell Wilson, a third-round pick, and Bobby Wagner, a second-rounder, have become two of the best players in the NFL at their respective positions. They have both earned four Pro Bowl selections, and Wagner is a three-time first-team All-Pro. Bruce Irvin and J.R. Sweezy also became full-time starters.
2010 New England Patriots (Total AV 39) Players Total AV Defensive back Devin McCourty 11 Tight end Aaron Hernandez 8 Tight end Rob Gronkowski 7 Linebacker Brandon Spikes 4 Linebacker Jermaine Cunningham 4 Defensive line Brandon Deaderick 2 Punter Zoltan Mesko 2 Wide receiver Taylor Price 1
This almost seems unfair, doesn't it? The Patriots had already won three Super Bowls in the Bill Belichick-Tom Brady era before they reloaded in the middle of their dynasty with an all-time great draft class. Rob Gronkowski, a second-round pick, has become arguably the most dominant tight end in NFL history. And Devin McCourty has been key to New England's success as an eight-year starter and two-time Pro Bowler. Aaron Hernandez was a big part of the Patriots' offense for two-plus years before his stunning fall from grace as a convicted murderer (the charge was thrown out after he died in prison). And Brandon Spikes was a four-year starter. The Patriots went 14-2 in 2010 before losing in the divisional round of the playoffs. They have won at least 12 games every season since, with three more trips to the Super Bowl and one title win.Gun Flex Right Stack 394 Dragon Smoke Kill Turbo Sucker Right
It wasn't a particularly special play in New Orleans Saints lore -- or at least you wouldn't think so. Just a 6-yard touchdown run by Mark Ingram in the first quarter of a 2016 win against Tampa Bay.
But NFL Films had Sean Payton and Drew Brees mic'd up for that game and captured them relaying that playcall through the headset and into the huddle. So I used it as an example when each of them agreed to sit down and dissect just what exactly they're talking about when they rattle off these cryptic, almost comically long sets of code words.
What a Payton-Brees play call sounds like... #Saints pic.twitter.com/PkZgdq2OOJ — New Orleans Saints (@Saints) September 5, 2017
When I read it off to Brees to see if he could remember when the Saints might have used it, his instant recall was as mind-boggling as the terminology itself.
"I feel like we've called that play twice," said the 39-year-old quarterback, who is heading into his 13th season with Payton in New Orleans. "I recall we ran one of those plays against Tampa like two years ago and scored on it."
Wait. Can he do that with every play?
"I'd say I've got pretty good recall on most plays -- but especially ones like that one, which was a bit of a specialty play," said Brees, who explained that the Saints called two plays in the huddle in that instance, hoping they would get the right defensive look to "sucker" the Buccaneers into a misdirection run.
"But we could just sit there and go through a call sheet and just go play after play, and I could give you the history of it as we've been with the Saints," Brees continued. "And I could probably rattle off that same playcall in certain games in critical situations. 'Man, this was a game-changer. Or this was a game winner and this was this and that was that. Or this guy made this adjustment on this play.'"
So if I asked Brees to remember the call from, say, the two-point conversion pass to Lance Moore in Super Bowl XLIV?
"Bunch Right Tare Slash 37 Weak F Kill Q8 Solid Z Speed Smash," he fired back so quickly that he might as well have been reciting his phone number.
It might not sound like poetry, but that's the kind of terminology that has led to Brees and Payton being so successful together for more than a decade.
Since they arrived in 2006, the Saints have gained more yards than any team in NFL history over a 12-year span, according to the Elias Sports Bureau -- averaging 404.1 per game. Their collaboration has been especially impressive considering they cut their teeth in different offensive systems.
Brees ran the spread offense at Purdue, then began his NFL career by running a version of the Air Coryell system with the San Diego Chargers that uses a series of numbers to identify passing routes. Payton, meanwhile, first began to develop his version of the West Coast offense (which uses names for the routes and numbers for the protections) under Jon Gruden as an assistant with the Philadelphia Eagles.
Brees said it was hard for him to adjust when he came to New Orleans -- like "learning a new language" -- before it ultimately became second nature.
"You're really talking about a Mac vs. a personal computer," said Payton, who laughed at the memory of coaching-pioneer Paul Brown being the first to send in playcalls from the sideline and trying to use his own secret communication device in the quarterback's headset back in the 1950s before the league outlawed it.
"All systems can give you the same type of plays. It's just, 'How is it communicated? Are we naming the formation? Are we numbering the protection and then naming the route?' It varies -- and all are effective," Payton said. "All of us, though, are searching to streamline that constantly. So you find yourself with words that you're implementing to be one syllable -- you know, 'wasp' -- or those terms that come out of your mouth cleanly and quickly.
"In your hurry-up or no-huddle, you might just say a word, and then everyone's understanding, 'It's this play.'"
That goes for the trick plays that everyone gets excited about in practice all week, too. Like the unforgettable "Philly Special" that just helped the Eagles beat the Patriots in the Super Bowl. Or the Saints' classic "Superdome Special" reverse touchdown by receiver Devery Henderson when they reopened the Dome after Hurricane Katrina in 2006. Everyone knows what to do on those plays.
But other times, more is more when it comes to jamming information into a playcall.
NFL jargon dissected
Gun Flex Right Stack 394 Dragon Smoke Kill Turbo Sucker Right is on the longer end of the Saints' playcalls. But Brees said it's pretty common -- especially since they like to call so many two-play packages in the huddle instead of the classic technique of audibling at the line of scrimmage and trying to yell information across the field.
So what does it all mean? Here's the breakdown, courtesy of one of the most dynamic offensive duos in NFL history:
Gun Flex Right Stack: That's the formation. "Gun" means Brees is in the shotgun. "Flex" means the Y receiver is flexed out a little bit from the line of scrimmage. And "Stack" means the two receivers on Brees' left side are essentially stacked on top of each other in the slot.
394: That's the protection. The "3" signifies that it's a three-step drop, which Brees said tells the offensive line to be "quick and aggressive." And the "94" signifies a max protection, so everyone should be able to block long enough to at least get the ball off on a pass play.
Dragon Smoke: That's a route concept -- in this case a quick pass designed to beat a blitz. Payton said the receivers would know whether to run a "drag" route or a "smoke" route based on the look the defense is giving or the game situation. The routes are where these names usually get most creative -- like Moore's "speed smash" to the corner of the end zone in the Super Bowl. Or "Harvey" or "Hank" or "Henry" (variations that all signify a hook route).
Kill: That's the key to this play -- the word that signifies Brees is calling two possible plays in the huddle. If he yells, "Kill!, Kill!, Kill!" before the snap, he's switching to the second play (which he did on Ingram's touchdown run).
Turbo Sucker Right: That's the run play Brees switched to when he saw the defense giving the look he wanted. "Turbo" means the Z receiver went in motion from the left side to the right side. And "Sucker" means it's a misdirection play that looks like Brees might hand off to the Z receiver on a jet sweep as he comes across. Instead, Brees hands the ball to Ingram, who runs up the middle between the right guard and the right tackle.
Drew Brees and the Saints often combine two plays into one call, making life easier at the line of scrimmage. Kelley L Cox/USA TODAY Sports
"I knew if we got the right look for the run play, it would be a walk-in," Brees said. "So it all drew up exactly the way we wanted. Those are always the best kind."
The obvious question is, "Why do the playcalls have to be so long?"
Well, they don't.
Coaches can simplify their scheme as much as necessary. Or even have all the plays listed on a wristband, which is what Brees did at Purdue. And yes, nearly two decades later he can still tell you that Play No. 33 on his old Purdue wristband was a "74 fade."
But as Payton explained, the longer the call, the more information is being conveyed.
"If you just come up with a one-syllable name, it's probably gonna be easier on the [quarterback] and it's probably gonna stress some others a little bit more," Payton said. "I can call, '22 Flanker Drive.' Boom. But if I call, '22 Flanker Drive, Halfback Burst,' I just helped the halfback out a little bit more. If I call, '22 Flanker Drive, Halfback Burst, X go.' Well, it's the same play, but I've alerted the X on a go. So it's information. And how much are you choosing to give? And who are you giving it to?
"And I would say, if it's long for Brees, that doesn't mean it's long for the next guy. He likes the information, studies it, likes spitting it out. But it's only as effective as your execution."
Payton said his playcalls weren't as long with quarterbacks like Quincy Carter and Vinny Testaverde when he was calling plays for the Dallas Cowboys or Kerry Collins with the New York Giants. And they wouldn't be as long if a young backup like Taysom Hill was thrown into the game.
Former Saints quarterback Garrett Grayson, a third-round pick in 2015, admitted that he struggled to spit out the long playcalls with confidence and authority in the huddle during his first year or two in New Orleans -- one of the reasons he flamed out in less than three years.
Hill said the Saints' playcalls are the longest he has ever been around.
"We're not gonna eliminate a player, though," Payton said. "We'll reduce so we can see them play. It's not like, 'If he can't do that, he's out.' Because, well, what if a guy's super talented?"
As for the terms like "Blue 80" that Brees yells at the line of scrimmage -- he wasn't as open with those.
"We're getting into the proprietary information there," Brees said coyly. "Any color number has existential meaning. There's some stuff that means something (including the snap count) and some stuff that doesn't.
"But I can't divulge that."
Payton's NFL education
There were about 10 minutes of awkward silence in Payton's office as he went down a YouTube rabbit hole trying to find a clip of Gruden calling one of those "either-or" plays in Super Bowl XXXVII, which led to a Keenan McCardell touchdown catch.
He finally found it -- South Right Nickel 41 Kill 374 Wasp.
It's not hard to pinpoint where Payton developed a large chunk of his offensive system and tendencies. He wound up with a kindred spirit when he landed his first NFL coaching gig in Philly 21 years ago and started learning terms like "Spider 2 Y Banana" from Gruden, then the Eagles' offensive coordinator.
"He was very, very important [in my development], because it was a foundation of offensive football specific to terminology, formations, red zone, third down, quarterback play," Payton said. "Just like years later when I arrived for three years in Dallas with Bill [Parcells] and the element of being a head coach.
"Sometimes you have some control over those, and other times you don't. ... But I was certainly fortunate to have ended up in Philly in '97 to be around him and [longtime NFL coach Bill] Callahan. It was a forward-thinking room in regards to offensive football, and it was critical for me.
"You realize very quickly how much you still needed to learn and didn't know, and then you really become a sponge and start taking it all in."
Payton's reverence for Parcells as a mentor is well-documented. Some of that is reflected in Payton's offensive scheme, too -- like the way the Saints label their series of runs, for example.
Brees also has been influential, as well as longtime Saints offensive coordinator Pete Carmichael Jr., since all three arrived together in '06 and started collaborating on the offense.
Brees is hardly the only NFL quarterback who speaks West Coast offense so fluently, because it has been the most popular system in the league since Bill Walsh made it legendary in the 1980s.
But Payton said Brees' recall is part of what makes the 11-time Pro Bowler so special. And it's part of what has allowed Payton to run one of the most diverse and sophisticated schemes in the league.
"His ability to study it, hear it ... the stress he has on Tuesday night when he gets the list and Wednesday's practice because he wants to get it right, and then he has it by [the end of the week]," Payton said. "I can give him the beginning of that: 'Drew, give me Gun Flex Right Stack 394 ...' and he'll just turn and [wave me off]. He'll know it."
Brees, who speaks highly of past coaching mentors like Joe Tiller at Purdue and Marty Schottenheimer, Brian Schottenheimer, Norv Turner and Cam Cameron in San Diego, said he takes great pride in mastering the game plan throughout the week. He wants to be able to anticipate what's coming next and spend extra time between plays looking for clues in the defense, etc. He also wants to be prepared in case the headset cuts out, so he doesn't have to burn a timeout.
When asked how often he hears the first three or four words of a playcall and knows what the rest is going to be, Brees said, "about 99 percent of the time."
When asked how often he doesn't even need to hear the first word, Brees laughed.
"Well, in certain situations," he said, "a lot."
In fact, the hardest part for Brees now is that sometimes he has a little too much recall.
"This is 12 years now in this offense, and we've evolved so much," he said. "We call a play and I look at Pete Carmichael and [longtime quarterbacks coach] Joe Lombardi and Sean Payton, and we can sit there and be like, 'OK, we've taught this four different ways over the last 12 years.' And it might have been where we taught it one way for a little while, and then there was a better way, then we said, 'No, we like the old way better.' Or there might be, 'Well, what if we tried this?' So there's plenty of times where a play will come up and we're like, 'OK, how are we teaching this one again?'
"It's just constant evolution. That's part of what's been so fun about this."New York Giants wide receiver/kick returner Dwayne Harris had his contract restructured, according to NFLPA records.
Harris had three years remaining on a five-year deal signed prior to the 2015 season. He was due $2.975 million in base salary and a $25,000 workout bonus this year. None of his 2017 salary was guaranteed. He also had a $3.8 million salary cap number this year, a significant hit for a special teams player who struggled as a returner in 2016.
In the reworked contract, Harris' base salary was reduced $500,000 to $2.475 million for 2017, according to the records. But there is now $1.1 million fully guaranteed, a source told ESPN.
Harris can also make back the $500K plus an additional $100K in an incentive where he needs to average 10-plus yards per punt return this upcoming season, the source added. He averaged 10.0 yards per punt return in his first year with the Giants but 5.9 this past season.
The end result is Harris' salary cap number will be lowered $500K to $3.3 million this season since it's officially considered a not likely to be earned (NLTBE) incentive.
The Giants were looking to restructure Harris’ deal since the addition of wide receiver Brandon Marshall at the start of free agency. If a there wasn’t a compromise, there was a possibility of Harris being released, a source told Adam Schefter at the time.
If released, the Giants would have saved just $1.4 million against the cap and taken a hit of $2.4 million in dead money.
Harris, 29, made the Pro Bowl this past season primarily on reputation and work as a gunner on the punt cover team. He was rarely used on offense, running a total of 11 pass routes, according to ESPN Stats and Information.
The veteran receiver caught a touchdown pass on his only reception of the season -- and only target -- in a Week 12 win over the Cleveland Browns.
Despite starring as a returner in his first season with the Giants, he struggled this past season. One year after returning both a kickoff and punt for a touchdown, the Giants took him off returns at times because of his lack of ball security and sometimes questionable decision-making.It is one month from the 2017 NFL draft. In 31 days there will be 29 teams (the Rams, Vikings and Patriots don’t have picks) selecting 32 players in the first round.
The New York Giants will pick 23rd overall on the first day of a three-day extravaganza where they are scheduled to make seven selections, one in each round of the draft. The first of the seven is the most important as it produces the greatest chance of finding a starter and/or Pro Bowler.
With the draft fast approaching, let’s put a prediction (subject to change) in print:
With the 23rd overall selection in the first round of the 2017 NFL draft, the New York Giants select … Vanderbilt linebacker Zach Cunningham.
Others who were in consideration included Stanford running back Christian McCaffrey, Utah tackle Garett Bolles and Alabama tackle Cam Robinson.
But my pick for the Giants, after talking with sources in and around the league, is Cunningham, even with all four options available. I'm basing this off the fact he's a player they like and who has attracted their interest. Jerry Reese was even at the Vanderbilt Pro Day recently, which is a curious stop for the Giants' general manager.
Immediately some of you are thinking, Come on, a linebacker? The Giants never draft a linebacker in the first round! Understandable. It has been 33 years since the Giants drafted Carl Banks with the third overall pick in 1984, the last time they selected a linebacker in the first round.
But it’s not like they haven’t been willing or able. The Giants wanted linebacker Leonard Floyd last year, except the Bears jumped them after an extraordinary string of events (which included a gas-mask-bong video that sent Laremy Tunsil plummeting). They also would have seriously contemplated C.J. Mosley in the 2014 draft had Odell Beckham Jr. and Zack Martin not been on the board.
A linebacker in the first round isn’t anywhere near as absurd as many seem to believe, especially when it comes to Cunningham. He has the length, athleticism and production the Giants covet. He can be a difference-maker at weakside linebacker with his skill set and versatility.
Pros: Cunningham is a rangy (6-foot-3 ½, 234 pounds) athlete who runs well and makes plays. He earned unanimous All-America recognition after finishing with an SEC-leading 125 tackles, including 16.5 for a loss. He compiled 285 total tackles and was durable and productive during his three years at Vanderbilt.
According to Scouts Inc., he has excellent range against the run. He covers sideline-to-sideline with impressive change of direction, and his long stride serves him well. But this is the part of the report that likely gets the Giants excited about Cunningham's prospects:
3rd down capabilities: 1 (exceptional) Plenty of range in underneath zone coverage. Gets quality depth and reads quarterback's eyes well to get into throwing lanes. Athleticism to carry TEs and slot WRs down the field. Shows good patience collecting RBs in man coverage and shows enough athleticism to limit separation. ... Above-average closing burst and has the length to finish. Awareness to look for the strip when able to get home.
Cons: Cunningham could benefit from adding bulk. He doesn’t always play with tremendous strength. This shows up in his tackling. According to Scouts Inc., he doesn't always tackle with power. He's an average tackler in part because he's "a little high at times entering contact." Cunningham needs to improve his leverage.
Overall, he’s the three-down linebacker who can take the Giants defense to the next level over the next few years.Somewhere late in the first or early in the second round of the NFL draft, Austin Corbett’s name will be called. There will be plenty of shrugs and Google searches to follow for fans of whatever team drafts him, as they try to figure out who he is and what he can bring to the table.
Anonymity is nothing new for Corbett. He should be used to it by now. Corbett was a walk-on offensive lineman at the University of Nevada after playing as a 240-pound senior at Reed High School in Sparks, Nevada. For fans, he might be the most under-the-radar projected first-round pick in this year’s NFL draft.
The Giants, with the second pick of the second round, are a realistic landing spot for Austin Corbett, at right. Chuck Cook/USA TODAY Sports
Corbett is hardly unknown to NFL teams, though. A small-town kid with big-time dreams and goals, he has had workouts or visits with 15 teams in the lead-up to the draft. Among those teams were the New York Giants, Carolina Panthers, Minnesota Vikings, Atlanta Falcons and Dallas Cowboys.
The Giants, with the second pick of the second round (34th overall), are a realistic landing spot. They had a private workout with Corbett earlier this month. He fits general manager Dave Gettleman's plan to bolster the interior of the offensive line through the draft.
Corbett played tackle at Nevada, but he is projected as a guard in the NFL. Some even think center might be his best fit. Gettleman is expected to go after some “hog mollies” in the draft. Corbett, whose brother played offensive line at San Diego State, fits the Giants’ mold.
2018 NFL DRAFT Round 1: Thursday, 8 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 2-3: Friday, 7 p.m., ESPN/ESPN App
Rounds 4-7: Sat., noon, ESPN/ABC/ESPN App
Where: Arlington, Texas
NFL draft coverage » | Full order: 1-256 » • Kiper's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• McShay's final Mock Draft: 1-32 »
• Kiper and McShay's draft reset »
• Draft predictions for all 32 teams »
• Draft Herbies: Kirk's best of the best »
• McShay's draft buzz: What I'm hearing »
• McShay's top five needs for every team »
“Just kind of that offensive-line mentality comes from my dad,” Corbett said. “We’ve had some struggles and he’s been through rough times with jobs and the recession and all that. He’s had to do things. Getting laid off. But it doesn’t matter what is going on in your life, you have to work to keep a roof over your head.
“It’s that mentality that me and my brother have both taken on from my dad. That is what an offensive lineman is. No matter the situation or what is going on, you have a job to do. If you don’t do it, your team is going to suffer.”
It’s this approach that has allowed Corbett to blossom. After arriving at Nevada as a walk-on, he was the Wolf Pack’s starting left tackle during his redshirt freshman season. He was a team captain by the time he was a sophomore.
Corbett said the captaincy was something he lucked into. That’s more than a touch of modesty. Really, it was earned. His teammates respected the way he played through a painful ankle injury in the final 11 games of his freshman campaign and voted him a captain. He ended up being a three-year captain at Nevada.
"That’s kind of what I pride myself on,” Corbett said. “I’m going to help my brothers out. I’m going to get the job done for them, and really why I love playing offensive line. It’s not a glory position. I don’t want it to be. I want to do my work so other people can get the credit.”
Like it or not, there’s no denying the spotlight this week. Corbett will be noticed. He’ll follow in the footsteps of his friend and mentor Joel Bitonio, a former tackle at Nevada who was selected in the second round of the 2014 draft by the Cleveland Browns. He signed a $50 million contract extension last year.
Corbett is a realistic option to be in the mix for the Falcons at No. 26, Vikings at 30, Giants at 34 or Colts at 36 or 37.
“Just productive as hell,” said one scout who gave him a first-round grade. “Smart, competitive, just a really good player.”
With that kind of thinking by some teams, the days of flying under the radar and being the underdog are over. Corbett is about to be a high draft pick.
The undersized kid from a small town in Nevada could soon be in a big city.
“It’s definitely surreal because of where I grew up in Reno or in Sparks,” Corbett said. “Not a lot of kids have really made it this far. Just to be that one and bring it to us firsthand is crazy.
“When I started as a walk-on at Nevada, I was just happy to be there, just be a part of the team, and wanted to do everything I could to further that. This really is an opportunity to live out a dream, make the most of it.”
First- or second-round guards
OG Quenton Nelson (Notre Dame) -- Good chance he goes in the top 10. “Generational player,” said one scout. “Love the guy,” said another.
OG Will Hernandez (UTEP) -- Likely first-round pick. Physical. Really good run-blocker. Not a great athlete. “No worry about his anchor,” according to a scout. Immediate starter.
OT/OG Isaiah Wynn (Georgia) -- Likely first-round pick. Can also play tackle. Technically sound. Some question whether he can hold up physically.
G/C Austin Corbett (Nevada) -- Late-first/early-second pick. Productive college player. Competitive with quick feet. Not known as a mauler.
G/C Frank Ragnow (Arkansas) -- Late-first/early-second pick. Excellent balance and anchor. Plays with power. Rising up boards.EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- It began on Oct. 17, 2015. That was the day when Penn State freshman running back Saquon Barkley introduced himself to the football world with a 194-yard rushing effort against No. 1 Ohio State at the famed Horseshoe. It was also the beginning of an unexpected friendship.
Giants coach Pat Shurmur said Saquon Barkley, above, and Ezekiel Elliott both have "collision balance," and that's not the only similarity between the two. Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire
Barkley was approached after that game near midfield by Ezekiel Elliott, then Ohio State’s star junior running back, who remembers leaping over a defender on one drive and watching Barkley do the same thing on the very next drive. Elliott had some complimentary words for Barkley on the gridiron and later when speaking to the media.
“A real big shoutout to that freshman running back,” Elliott told reporters after the game. “He’s definitely the truth.”
Barkley noticed. It meant something to him that Elliott would heap such praise on a freshman who was playing in his fifth career game.
This was Ezekiel Elliott, the top running back in college football and eventually the No. 4 overall pick in the next NFL draft. Barkley admitted later he was giddy just to be on the field that day with Elliott and Buckeyes quarterback Braxton Miller. That he opened Elliott’s eyes was a bonus.
That sparked a friendship that has encouraged the two running backs to remain in touch ever since. Their second career matchup will be Sunday night when Elliott and the Dallas Cowboys host Barkley and the New York Giants at AT&T Stadium.
"When I look at Zeke, something I want to get better at that he does is downhill running, understanding situations and taking what the defense gives you. Just lowering your shoulder and doing that."
“We kind of kept in contact after that game,” Barkley said of that 38-10 Ohio State victory in 2015.
They’ve texted and spoken. Barkley even told Newsday that Elliott sent him a congratulatory text after he rushed for 106 yards and had a 68-yard touchdown run in his NFL debut.
"Just hitting him here and there, giving him a little bit of motivation, seeing how he’s doing," Elliott said.
Elliott and Barkley were supposed to meet up and train together in Los Angeles this offseason, but their schedules didn’t align. Barkley had to leave just days before Elliott arrived. It was disappointing.
Barkley, the No. 2 overall pick by the Giants this year, studies almost all the top running backs. He watches film of Todd Gurley II (whom he did work out with in Los Angeles), Elliott and Le'Veon Bell, among others. Barkley wanted to pick Elliott’s brain, and he still plans to do so sometime in the future.
Barkley and Elliott, on the surface, are unexpected friends. Barkley is reserved and soft-spoken, conscious of his image and careful with his words. Elliott is more boisterous, an emotional roller coaster with a fair share of off-the-field incidents on his résumé.
But there are similarities: easy smiles, engaging personalities and rare skills.
They can do it all. Giants coach Pat Shurmur raved at what he called their "collision balance." They both possess that unusual trait, which allows them to excel as runners and blockers.
But they mostly go about their business in different manners. Elliott is a home run hitter who thrives running in the middle of the field and loves lowering his shoulder into the chest of defenders. Barkley is a big play waiting to happen who runs pristine routes but prefers to bounce his runs outside.
“Man, I definitely think Saquon is a different runner,” said cornerback Eli Apple, a former teammate of Elliott at Ohio State and now teamed with Barkley on the Giants. “Saquon has some crazy shiftiness. Zeke does too, but they move differently.”
Saquon Barkley, pictured, and Ezekiel Elliott combined for 347 rushing yards when they met on the field on Oct. 17, 2015. Barkley outgained Elliott 194-153, but Elliott's Buckeyes won 35-10. Jamie Sabau/Getty Images
There is something for Barkley to learn from watching Elliott’s tape and picking his brain. Elliott didn’t rush for an NFL-best 1,631 yards and get named first-team All-Pro as a rookie by accident.
“When I look at Zeke, something I want to get better at that he does is downhill running, understanding situations and taking what the defense gives you. Just lowering your shoulder and doing that,” Barkley said. “Sometimes in college, I would try to make that three and four [yards] and try to make it 60 sometimes.
“Just being more aware of the game. He’s a very physical runner. He’s big. He’s jacked. And then he can come out and juke you and catch the ball out of the backfield. And the way he sets up his screens. The patience in his screen game is really good.”
Barkley isn't too shabby in that regard, either. He was drafted second overall -- two picks higher than Elliott -- for a reason.
Elliott believes his success with the Cowboys contributed to the Giants pulling the trigger on Barkley in the draft.
"It definitely might have," Elliott said. "But he’s a phenomenal player. He’s a great player, definitely -- I think, honestly, was the best player in that draft. He deserved to be picked that high."
Barkley is now trying to replicate Elliott’s on-field success early in his career, particularly his rookie year. It’s possible. The past two NFL rushing leaders (Elliott and the Kansas City Chiefs' Kareem Hunt) were rookies.
Barkley’s 106 yards rushing on Sunday was the third-highest total in Week 1, despite him being hit at or behind the line of scrimmage on seven of his 18 rushes. His 68-yard touchdown -- during which he broke a pair of tackles, ran through other contact and surprised Jacksonville Jaguars defenders with his speed -- validated his teammates’ belief that he can have that Elliott-like rookie season.
“I’ve seen all that. And I played him in college,” Apple said. “He’s got that hungriness and he wants to go out there and dominate. Very hard [to tackle]. He’s strong and he’s shifty. So he’s going to be a great one.”
Just like his friend, who now also happens to be his division rival.
ESPN Cowboys reporter Todd Archer contributed to this story.EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- It began on Oct. 17, 2015. That was the day when Penn State freshman running back Saquon Barkley introduced himself to the football world with a 194-yard rushing effort against No. 1 Ohio State at the famed Horseshoe. It was also the beginning of an unexpected friendship.
Giants coach Pat Shurmur said Saquon Barkley, above, and Ezekiel Elliott both have "collision balance," and that's not the only similarity between the two. Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire
Barkley was approached after that game near midfield by Ezekiel Elliott, then Ohio State’s star junior running back, who remembers leaping over a defender on one drive and watching Barkley do the same thing on the very next drive. Elliott had some complimentary words for Barkley on the gridiron and later when speaking to the media.
“A real big shoutout to that freshman running back,” Elliott told reporters after the game. “He’s definitely the truth.”
Barkley noticed. It meant something to him that Elliott would heap such praise on a freshman who was playing in his fifth career game.
This was Ezekiel Elliott, the top running back in college football and eventually the No. 4 overall pick in the next NFL draft. Barkley admitted later he was giddy just to be on the field that day with Elliott and Buckeyes quarterback Braxton Miller. That he opened Elliott’s eyes was a bonus.
That sparked a friendship that has encouraged the two running backs to remain in touch ever since. Their second career matchup will be Sunday night when Elliott and the Dallas Cowboys host Barkley and the New York Giants at AT&T Stadium.
"When I look at Zeke, something I want to get better at that he does is downhill running, understanding situations and taking what the defense gives you. Just lowering your shoulder and doing that."
“We kind of kept in contact after that game,” Barkley said of that 38-10 Ohio State victory in 2015.
They’ve texted and spoken. Barkley even told Newsday that Elliott sent him a congratulatory text after he rushed for 106 yards and had a 68-yard touchdown run in his NFL debut.
"Just hitting him here and there, giving him a little bit of motivation, seeing how he’s doing," Elliott said.
Elliott and Barkley were supposed to meet up and train together in Los Angeles this offseason, but their schedules didn’t align. Barkley had to leave just days before Elliott arrived. It was disappointing.
Barkley, the No. 2 overall pick by the Giants this year, studies almost all the top running backs. He watches film of Todd Gurley II (whom he did work out with in Los Angeles), Elliott and Le'Veon Bell, among others. Barkley wanted to pick Elliott’s brain, and he still plans to do so sometime in the future.
Barkley and Elliott, on the surface, are unexpected friends. Barkley is reserved and soft-spoken, conscious of his image and careful with his words. Elliott is more boisterous, an emotional roller coaster with a fair share of off-the-field incidents on his résumé.
But there are similarities: easy smiles, engaging personalities and rare skills.
They can do it all. Giants coach Pat Shurmur raved at what he called their "collision balance." They both possess that unusual trait, which allows them to excel as runners and blockers.
But they mostly go about their business in different manners. Elliott is a home run hitter who thrives running in the middle of the field and loves lowering his shoulder into the chest of defenders. Barkley is a big play waiting to happen who runs pristine routes but prefers to bounce his runs outside.
“Man, I definitely think Saquon is a different runner,” said cornerback Eli Apple, a former teammate of Elliott at Ohio State and now teamed with Barkley on the Giants. “Saquon has some crazy shiftiness. Zeke does too, but they move differently.”
Saquon Barkley, pictured, and Ezekiel Elliott combined for 347 rushing yards when they met on the field on Oct. 17, 2015. Barkley outgained Elliott 194-153, but Elliott's Buckeyes won 35-10. Jamie Sabau/Getty Images
There is something for Barkley to learn from watching Elliott’s tape and picking his brain. Elliott didn’t rush for an NFL-best 1,631 yards and get named first-team All-Pro as a rookie by accident.
“When I look at Zeke, something I want to get better at that he does is downhill running, understanding situations and taking what the defense gives you. Just lowering your shoulder and doing that,” Barkley said. “Sometimes in college, I would try to make that three and four [yards] and try to make it 60 sometimes.
“Just being more aware of the game. He’s a very physical runner. He’s big. He’s jacked. And then he can come out and juke you and catch the ball out of the backfield. And the way he sets up his screens. The patience in his screen game is really good.”
Barkley isn't too shabby in that regard, either. He was drafted second overall -- two picks higher than Elliott -- for a reason.
Elliott believes his success with the Cowboys contributed to the Giants pulling the trigger on Barkley in the draft.
"It definitely might have," Elliott said. "But he’s a phenomenal player. He’s a great player, definitely -- I think, honestly, was the best player in that draft. He deserved to be picked that high."
Barkley is now trying to replicate Elliott’s on-field success early in his career, particularly his rookie year. It’s possible. The past two NFL rushing leaders (Elliott and the Kansas City Chiefs' Kareem Hunt) were rookies.
Barkley’s 106 yards rushing on Sunday was the third-highest total in Week 1, despite him being hit at or behind the line of scrimmage on seven of his 18 rushes. His 68-yard touchdown -- during which he broke a pair of tackles, ran through other contact and surprised Jacksonville Jaguars defenders with his speed -- validated his teammates’ belief that he can have that Elliott-like rookie season.
“I’ve seen all that. And I played him in college,” Apple said. “He’s got that hungriness and he wants to go out there and dominate. Very hard [to tackle]. He’s strong and he’s shifty. So he’s going to be a great one.”
Just like his friend, who now also happens to be his division rival.
ESPN Cowboys reporter Todd Archer contributed to this story.EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- It began on Oct. 17, 2015. That was the day when Penn State freshman running back Saquon Barkley introduced himself to the football world with a 194-yard rushing effort against No. 1 Ohio State at the famed Horseshoe. It was also the beginning of an unexpected friendship.
Giants coach Pat Shurmur said Saquon Barkley, above, and Ezekiel Elliott both have "collision balance," and that's not the only similarity between the two. Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire
Barkley was approached after that game near midfield by Ezekiel Elliott, then Ohio State’s star junior running back, who remembers leaping over a defender on one drive and watching Barkley do the same thing on the very next drive. Elliott had some complimentary words for Barkley on the gridiron and later when speaking to the media.
“A real big shoutout to that freshman running back,” Elliott told reporters after the game. “He’s definitely the truth.”
Barkley noticed. It meant something to him that Elliott would heap such praise on a freshman who was playing in his fifth career game.
This was Ezekiel Elliott, the top running back in college football and eventually the No. 4 overall pick in the next NFL draft. Barkley admitted later he was giddy just to be on the field that day with Elliott and Buckeyes quarterback Braxton Miller. That he opened Elliott’s eyes was a bonus.
That sparked a friendship that has encouraged the two running backs to remain in touch ever since. Their second career matchup will be Sunday night when Elliott and the Dallas Cowboys host Barkley and the New York Giants at AT&T Stadium.
"When I look at Zeke, something I want to get better at that he does is downhill running, understanding situations and taking what the defense gives you. Just lowering your shoulder and doing that."
“We kind of kept in contact after that game,” Barkley said of that 38-10 Ohio State victory in 2015.
They’ve texted and spoken. Barkley even told Newsday that Elliott sent him a congratulatory text after he rushed for 106 yards and had a 68-yard touchdown run in his NFL debut.
"Just hitting him here and there, giving him a little bit of motivation, seeing how he’s doing," Elliott said.
Elliott and Barkley were supposed to meet up and train together in Los Angeles this offseason, but their schedules didn’t align. Barkley had to leave just days before Elliott arrived. It was disappointing.
Barkley, the No. 2 overall pick by the Giants this year, studies almost all the top running backs. He watches film of Todd Gurley II (whom he did work out with in Los Angeles), Elliott and Le'Veon Bell, among others. Barkley wanted to pick Elliott’s brain, and he still plans to do so sometime in the future.
Barkley and Elliott, on the surface, are unexpected friends. Barkley is reserved and soft-spoken, conscious of his image and careful with his words. Elliott is more boisterous, an emotional roller coaster with a fair share of off-the-field incidents on his résumé.
But there are similarities: easy smiles, engaging personalities and rare skills.
They can do it all. Giants coach Pat Shurmur raved at what he called their "collision balance." They both possess that unusual trait, which allows them to excel as runners and blockers.
But they mostly go about their business in different manners. Elliott is a home run hitter who thrives running in the middle of the field and loves lowering his shoulder into the chest of defenders. Barkley is a big play waiting to happen who runs pristine routes but prefers to bounce his runs outside.
“Man, I definitely think Saquon is a different runner,” said cornerback Eli Apple, a former teammate of Elliott at Ohio State and now teamed with Barkley on the Giants. “Saquon has some crazy shiftiness. Zeke does too, but they move differently.”
Saquon Barkley, pictured, and Ezekiel Elliott combined for 347 rushing yards when they met on the field on Oct. 17, 2015. Barkley outgained Elliott 194-153, but Elliott's Buckeyes won 35-10. Jamie Sabau/Getty Images
There is something for Barkley to learn from watching Elliott’s tape and picking his brain. Elliott didn’t rush for an NFL-best 1,631 yards and get named first-team All-Pro as a rookie by accident.
“When I look at Zeke, something I want to get better at that he does is downhill running, understanding situations and taking what the defense gives you. Just lowering your shoulder and doing that,” Barkley said. “Sometimes in college, I would try to make that three and four [yards] and try to make it 60 sometimes.
“Just being more aware of the game. He’s a very physical runner. He’s big. He’s jacked. And then he can come out and juke you and catch the ball out of the backfield. And the way he sets up his screens. The patience in his screen game is really good.”
Barkley isn't too shabby in that regard, either. He was drafted second overall -- two picks higher than Elliott -- for a reason.
Elliott believes his success with the Cowboys contributed to the Giants pulling the trigger on Barkley in the draft.
"It definitely might have," Elliott said. "But he’s a phenomenal player. He’s a great player, definitely -- I think, honestly, was the best player in that draft. He deserved to be picked that high."
Barkley is now trying to replicate Elliott’s on-field success early in his career, particularly his rookie year. It’s possible. The past two NFL rushing leaders (Elliott and the Kansas City Chiefs' Kareem Hunt) were rookies.
Barkley’s 106 yards rushing on Sunday was the third-highest total in Week 1, despite him being hit at or behind the line of scrimmage on seven of his 18 rushes. His 68-yard touchdown -- during which he broke a pair of tackles, ran through other contact and surprised Jacksonville Jaguars defenders with his speed -- validated his teammates’ belief that he can have that Elliott-like rookie season.
“I’ve seen all that. And I played him in college,” Apple said. “He’s got that hungriness and he wants to go out there and dominate. Very hard [to tackle]. He’s strong and he’s shifty. So he’s going to be a great one.”
Just like his friend, who now also happens to be his division rival.
ESPN Cowboys reporter Todd Archer contributed to this story.The NFL draft stretched three days and took in excess of 13 real-time hours for all the selections to be made. When it all wrapped, there were a total of 256 players selected by the league’s 32 teams.
Then the real chaos ensued. The draft quickly transitioned into undrafted free agency, which in reality was already underway for several hours in a wink-wink underground way that only the NFL can cultivate.
Jawill Davis had his phone ringing throughout the latter rounds of the draft, but it was just teams setting up post-draft options. Melina Vastola/USA TODAY Sports
Undrafted free agency is where teams net additional players (the Arizona Cardinals added 24 this year) in hopes of finding the next Kurt Warner, Victor Cruz or Jason Peters. It begins before the draft is finished, and goes crazy immediately after the final selection.
It happens every year. There are significantly more NFL hopefuls than draft picks. This year, 336 players attended the NFL scouting combine alone. Hundreds more worked out across the country in hopes of an opportunity to make a roster. The leftovers from the draft sign as undrafted free agents, receive rookie-minicamp tryouts or are stuck banging on doors for a chance to prove they can play.
Wide receiver Jawill Davis is one of the 11 or so players who will officially sign with the New York Giants as an undrafted free agent when he reports for rookie minicamp Thursday. He will be joined by dozens of rookies, with some veterans sprinkled in on tryouts.
Davis is one of several hundred prospects who waited to hear his name called in Rounds 6 or 7 before finally finding a team as an undrafted free agent around 7 p.m. on Saturday night after Day 3 of the draft, almost 48 hours after the Giants selected Penn State running back Saquon Barkley with their first of six picks.
“It was a frenzy for me. A long process. A long three days,” Davis said in a telephone conversation with ESPN several days after the madness. “The days I was hearing [to be drafted] were Friday and Saturday that I could be going. In the later rounds, a lot of phone calls, a lot of teams expressing they want me to come play for their team.”
Best Undrafted Free Agents From Antonio Gates to Kurt Warner, we take a look at the best undrafted free agents in the histoy of each team. • Best undrafted free agents in each team's history »
Davis played collegiately at the FCS level, for Bethune-Cookman. He caught 36 passes for 475 yards and three touchdowns. The 6-foot, 195-pound receiver ran the 40-yard dash at his pro day in 4.37 seconds.
Davis’ conversations with team personnel led him to believe the Chicago Bears might select him in the seventh and final round of the draft. The Bears took Georgia wide receiver Javon Wims with their final selection (No. 224 overall) instead. It's hardly an uncommon story.
With family at his house eating and waiting to celebrate, Davis was in a similar position to many other draft prospects. He wanted to hear his name called but knew it might not happen. That would leave him in the wild west, trying to figure which team would provide the best fit.
Davis and his agent, Chris Martin of OTG Sports Management, had their phones ringing throughout the sixth and seventh rounds of the draft. In retrospect, it turned out those calls were in preparation for the post-draft madness.
Coaches, scouts, general managers and other team personnel get into the action. It varies by team. Davis was mostly in contact with wide receivers coach Tyke Tolbert in his dealings with the Giants. Tolbert kept calling throughout the later parts of the draft (the Giants didn’t have a pick in the sixth or seventh rounds) to appraise the situation and make their interest known. Davis had also heard from veteran scout Jeremiah Davis throughout the process.
Assistant general manager Kevin Abrams ran the Giants’ post-draft operation this year. It’s a balancing act that can’t satisfy everybody and can affect the number of desirable players added. Unlike the top of the draft, though, it’s no-holds-barred with the undrafteds. They can sign with any team they please.
“We will target certain players that we want and we’re going to do our best to go get them,” Giants general manager Dave Gettleman said. “I told you the Andrew Norwell story, the Philly Brown story, we’ll do that. And that means -- you guys understand you’ve got an undrafted rookie salary cap. You only get X amount of dollars that you can spend. So, we will use that as wisely as we can. So we will target guys.”
Norwell was an undrafted free-agent signing of Gettleman’s in Carolina. He developed into an All-Pro. Brown started some games at wide receiver for the Panthers. They were desirable undrafted free agents for Gettleman, which means they received sizable signing bonuses.
Each team received $103,856 this year to entice undrafted free agents with signing bonuses. They were free to use it as they please once the draft ended. That is when it got hectic.
Davis was among the Giants’ targets. So were Temple safety Sean Chandler (who received a $10,000 signing bonus) and SMU center Evan Brown ($10,000). The Giants had them in their sights and remained in contact late in the draft while other teams were still making picks.
It’s legal. It’s part of the process. It’s the final step, similar to college recruiting at the NFL level.
About 10 days to two weeks before the draft, teams really start working players. They call to ask what they’ve been doing and who they’re talking to. They want to determine which teams might be interested, where they can get the players, when they can get them and how much they can get them for. Information is power when it comes to the NFL draft.
Davis was among the lucky ones. He had upward of 10 teams interested in his services, but after discussions with Martin and a one-on-one with his mother, he made a decision: the Giants. He took into account which teams drafted receivers (the Giants didn’t), their rosters, how much interest the coaching staff had shown throughout the process and what they were saying when they called. Everything mattered.
“We took all that into consideration,” Davis said.
The bonus wasn’t the only factor. It almost always is for players after the draft, especially when dealing with $10,000 here or there. But most understand that taking the most cash could be a shortsighted decision.
Andrew Norwell is an example of an undrafted free agent who can make an impact. Dave Gettleman signed the lineman, who would become All-Pro, in Carolina. Robin Alam/Icon Sportswire
More important is the opportunity to make the roster of the team they choose, which in turn would allow them to make significantly more money. It’s why before, during and after the draft, agents and players are analyzing each individual’s situation.
“Trying to line up who has the most interest and who has the best chance to make sure they can stick on a roster,” NFL agent Tyler Glass said.
Glass is a partner at G3, which represented three players in this year’s draft. Monmouth center Alex Thompson and Syracuse offensive tackle Jamar McGloster signed as undrafted free agents with the Baltimore Ravens and San Francisco 49ers, respectively. Youngstown State offensive tackle Justin Spencer earned a tryout with the Indianapolis Colts.
With three players in the undrafted pool, it made for a crazy few hours and days this weekend at the G3 office.
“That’s what I call the stock room in the '80s,” Glass said. “I have two phones; I have headphones. My brother is helping with calls. My dad is here. It’s a stock room with teams. It’s a madhouse.”
That's typical of the undrafted free-agent process, which often draws criticism even from those inside the league. Hundreds of players agree to contract terms or accept invitations to tryouts in the span of a few hours. There are almost always players who back out of one or the other every year before it’s said and done, which conversely leaves another without a contract or invite. How could it not happen, given the system in place?
Boston College tight end Charlie Callinan originally accepted an invite from the Giants. But when the Buffalo Bills offered a tryout later, he elected to make the switch. Buffalo didn’t draft a tight end and wasn't as deep as the Giants at the position. It was a no-brainer.
And then there are some just agonizing for that call. Safety J.J. Nunes played seven positions in his career in the Valparaiso defense. He has been relentlessly training for the past four months, but his school didn’t have a pro day and he was shut out of several others. He’s still hoping to catch a team's attention and get invited to a tryout.
When the dust settles after the draft, this is only the beginning for players, such as Davis, who didn’t have their name called. After all this, now they have to get on the field and prove they’re worthy of a roster spot. Given the minimal financial investment, nothing is given as undrafted free agent.
“As soon as I land in New Jersey, I’m getting to work. I’m getting into the playbook, grinding from here on and ready to make plays on the field and show my abilities. Show why they like me so much. Just take everything in like a sponge and learn,” Davis said. “I need to prove my big-play ability and my hard work ethic.”
It’s simply the next step in trying to make it in the NFL as an undrafted free agent.The NFL draft stretched three days and took in excess of 13 real-time hours for all the selections to be made. When it all wrapped, there were a total of 256 players selected by the league’s 32 teams. Then the real chaos ensued. The draft quickly transitioned into undrafted free agency, which in reality was already underway for several hours in a wink-wink underground way that only the NFL can cultivate. Undrafted free agency is where teams net additional players (the Arizona Cardinals added 24 this year) in hopes of finding the next Kurt Warner, Victor Cruz or Jason Peters. It begins before the draft is finished, and goes crazy immediately after the final selection. It happens every year. There are significantly more NFL hopefuls than draft picks. This year, 336 players attended the NFL scouting combine alone. Hundreds more worked out across the country in hopes of an opportunity to make a roster. The leftovers from the draft sign as undrafted free agents, receive rookie-minicamp tryouts or are stuck banging on doors for a chance to prove they can play. Wide receiver Jawill Davis is one of the 11 or so players who will officially sign with the New York Giants as an undrafted free agent when he reports for rookie minicamp Thursday. He will be joined by dozens of rookies, with some veterans sprinkled in on tryouts. Davis is one of several hundred prospects who waited to hear his name called in Rounds 6 or 7 before finally finding a team as an undrafted free agent around 7 p.m. on Saturday night after Day 3 of the draft, almost 48 hours after the Giants selected Penn State running back Saquon Barkley with their first of six picks. “It was a frenzy for me. A long process. A long three days,” Davis said in a telephone conversation with ESPN several days after the madness. “The days I was hearing [to be drafted] were Friday and Saturday that I could be going. In the later rounds, a lot of phone calls, a lot of teams expressing they want me to come play for their team.” Davis played collegiately at the FCS level, for Bethune-Cookman. He caught 36 passes for 475 yards and three touchdowns. The 6-foot, 195-pound receiver ran the 40-yard dash at his pro day in 4.37 seconds. Davis’ conversations with team personnel led him to believe the Chicago Bears might select him in the seventh and final round of the draft. The Bears took Georgia wide receiver Javon Wims with their final selection (No. 224 overall) instead. It's hardly an uncommon story. With family at his house eating and waiting to celebrate, Davis was in a similar position to many other draft prospects. He wanted to hear his name called but knew it might not happen. That would leave him in the wild west, trying to figure which team would provide the best fit. Davis and his agent, Chris Martin of OTG Sports Management, had their phones ringing throughout the sixth and seventh rounds of the draft. In retrospect, it turned out those calls were in preparation for the post-draft madness. Coaches, scouts, general managers and other team personnel get into the action. It varies by team. Davis was mostly in contact with wide receivers coach Tyke Tolbert in his dealings with the Giants. Tolbert kept calling throughout the later parts of the draft (the Giants didn’t have a pick in the sixth or seventh rounds) to appraise the situation and make their interest known. Davis had also heard from veteran scout Jeremiah Davis throughout the process. Assistant general manager Kevin Abrams ran the Giants’ post-draft operation this year. It’s a balancing act that can’t satisfy everybody and can affect the number of desirable players added. Unlike the top of the draft, though, it’s no-holds-barred with the undrafteds. They can sign with any team they please. “We will target certain players that we want and we’re going to do our best to go get them,” Giants general manager Dave Gettleman said. “I told you the Andrew Norwell story, the Philly Brown story, we’ll do that. And that means -- you guys understand you’ve got an undrafted rookie salary cap. You only get X amount of dollars that you can spend. So, we will use that as wisely as we can. So we will target guys.” Norwell was an undrafted free-agent signing of Gettleman’s in Carolina. He developed into an All-Pro. Brown started some games at wide receiver for the Panthers. They were desirable undrafted free agents for Gettleman, which means they received sizable signing bonuses. Each team received $103,856 this year to entice undrafted free agents with signing bonuses. They were free to use it as they please once the draft ended. That is when it got hectic. Davis was among the Giants’ targets. So were Temple safety Sean Chandler (who received a $10,000 signing bonus) and SMU center Evan Brown ($10,000). The Giants had them in their sights and remained in contact late in the draft while other teams were still making picks. It’s legal. It’s part of the process. It’s the final step, similar to college recruiting at the NFL level. About 10 days to two weeks before the draft, teams really start working players. They call to ask what they’ve been doing and who they’re talking to. They want to determine which teams might be interested, where they can get the players, when they can get them and how much they can get them for. Information is power when it comes to the NFL draft. Davis was among the lucky ones. He had upward of 10 teams interested in his services, but after discussions with Martin and a one-on-one with his mother, he made a decision: the Giants. He took into account which teams drafted receivers (the Giants didn’t), their rosters, how much interest the coaching staff had shown throughout the process and what they were saying when they called. Everything mattered. “We took all that into consideration,” Davis said. The bonus wasn’t the only factor. It almost always is for players after the draft, especially when dealing with $10,000 here or there. But most understand that taking the most cash could be a shortsighted decision. More important is the opportunity to make the roster of the team they choose, which in turn would allow them to make significantly more money. It’s why before, during and after the draft, agents and players are analyzing each individual’s situation. “Trying to line up who has the most interest and who has the best chance to make sure they can stick on a roster,” NFL agent Tyler Glass said. Glass is a partner at G3, which represented three players in this year’s draft. Monmouth center Alex Thompson and Syracuse offensive tackle Jamar McGloster signed as undrafted free agents with the Baltimore Ravens and San Francisco 49ers, respectively. Youngstown State offensive tackle Justin Spencer earned a tryout with the Indianapolis Colts. With three players in the undrafted pool, it made for a crazy few hours and days this weekend at the G3 office. “That’s what I call the stock room in the '80s,” Glass said. “I have two phones; I have headphones. My brother is helping with calls. My dad is here. It’s a stock room with teams. It’s a madhouse.” That's typical of the undrafted free-agent process, which often draws criticism even from those inside the league. Hundreds of players agree to contract terms or accept invitations to tryouts in the span of a few hours. There are almost always players who back out of one or the other every year before it’s said and done, which conversely leaves another without a contract or invite. How could it not happen, given the system in place? Boston College tight end Charlie Callinan originally accepted an invite from the Giants. But when the Buffalo Bills offered a tryout later, he elected to make the switch. Buffalo didn’t draft a tight end and wasn't as deep as the Giants at the position. It was a no-brainer. And then there are some just agonizing for that call. Safety J.J. Nunes played seven positions in his career in the Valparaiso defense. He has been relentlessly training for the past four months, but his school didn’t have a pro day and he was shut out of several others. He’s still hoping to catch a team's attention and get invited to a tryout. When the dust settles after the draft, this is only the beginning for players, such as Davis, who didn’t have their name called. After all this, now they have to get on the field and prove they’re worthy of a roster spot. Given the minimal financial investment, nothing is given as undrafted free agent. “As soon as I land in New Jersey, I’m getting to work. I’m getting into the playbook, grinding from here on and ready to make plays on the field and show my abilities. Show why they like me so much. Just take everything in like a sponge and learn,” Davis said. “I need to prove my big-play ability and my hard work ethic.” It’s simply the next step in trying to make it in the NFL as an undrafted free agent.Todd McShay says the Giants' selection of Saquon Barkley shows that they want to return to the physical, Big Blue style of offense. (1:11)
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- Dave Gettleman stood at the podium for his introductory news conference and laid out what he believed were the basic tenets of winning football. In his mind, they’re the same now as they were in 1935.
“You got to run the ball. You got to stop the run. You got to pressure the passer,” Gettleman said after being hired as the New York Giants' general manager late last year.
Those beliefs were evident in the direction the Giants went early in the draft. Their top two picks were brought in to inject life into their dormant running game. After that, their two third-round picks and fifth-rounder were selected to pressure the passer.
Second-round draft pick Will Hernandez will be called upon to pave running lanes for first-round pick Saquon Barkley. Sue Ogrocki/AP Photo
Fourth-round quarterback Kyle Lauletta was the lone exception.
“We’ve got a quarterback. We got a running back. And we got the Giants back,” co-owner Steve Tisch said.
This is the thinking of an organization that meandered off track in recent years and is coming off a 3-13 season. Tisch views this as a new chapter with a new head coach and general manager. And with another star added to the stable: running back Saquon Barkley.
Addressing the run game
This was a priority at all costs. The Giants felt it was so important that they didn’t entertain trade calls when it was their turn on the clock in the first round. They didn’t contemplate any of the remaining quarterbacks over Barkley.
The Giants followed that up with the selection of UTEP’s Will Hernandez in the second round. Hernandez is a mauling guard who had a first-round grade from the Giants.
It has been a while since the Giants' running game has shown signs of competence. It has been eight years since they finished with a top-10 rushing attack.
With Barkley running behind an offensive line that added Hernandez and free-agent signings Nate Solder and Patrick Omameh, they might have a chance. At least their running game has improved.
“A lot better. We’re all saying that with a smile,” coach Pat Shurmur said. "I think when you bring in a dynamic runner and then you bring in a guy that can block, certainly those are two pieces to the equation.”
Barkley was the unanimous best player in the draft, according to the Giants brass. Gettleman went as far as saying he was touched by the hands of God. Barkley better be able to top the team's rookie rushing record of 830 yards set by Hall of Famer Tuffy Leemans in 1936.
With the type of investment the Giants have made, it better lead to an improved rushing attack. Their rushers averaged 1.50 yards after contact per rush last season, 26th in the NFL.
The QB situation
The Giants passed on Sam Darnold and Josh Rosen in the first round and quadrupled down on Eli Manning in the process. They then added competition for Davis Webb with the selection of Richmond QB Kyle Lauletta in the fourth round.
This was an interesting move, especially for a team short on picks and one that took Webb in the third round last year. The Giants like Lauletta a lot. Gettleman raved about his pocket presence, toughness and instincts. Shurmur praised his size, mobility and anticipation. He even downplayed the belief by some that Lauletta's arm strength was insufficient.
The Giants like Kyle Lauletta a lot and consider his selection in Round 4 a move for the long term. Jonathan Bachman/Getty Images
Gettleman conceded this was a pick for the long term. Maybe the Giants can develop Lauletta into something. Maybe they can develop Webb into something. Having both doubles the team's chances of maybe hitting it big with a future franchise quarterback.
The Giants insisted that picking Lauletta wasn’t an indictment on Manning or Webb. “Picking Kyle has less to do about Eli and Davis and more to do about Kyle,” Shurmur said. “We liked the player and we wanted to add him to our team and then just let them compete.”
It does say something about the Giants’ thinking, though. They’re unsure about both their quarterbacks’ future. Manning needs to play well this season to earn another year, and Webb isn’t guaranteed anything. He will have to compete with Lauletta, especially considering they're almost on the same page, since Webb has had only a few weeks to digest the new playbook.
More moves
The Giants still have holes on their roster. They could use a wide receiver, an offensive tackle, a linebacker and some cornerbacks.
“Rome isn’t built in a day,” Gettleman said of reshaping a roster that needed work this offseason.
The Giants had six picks in five rounds. They added a running back, quarterback, offensive lineman, two defensive tackles and an outside linebacker.
Gettleman's first draft went as well as the team could’ve hoped.
“Has any GM ever sat in this presser and said we just drafted crap? No. I’m thrilled,” Gettleman said. “I felt like we did really well. Again, you’re talking about a first-rounder in the second round, two second-rounders you draft in the third round, we had Kyle where we had him rated and we had [fifth-round defensive lineman] RJ [McIntosh] where we had him rated. I’m thrilled with this draft. We got big butts, we got power, we got speed. Sorry if that was inappropriate. And we got a quarterback that we really liked, so I’m not angry.”For the most part, we have focused our bounty coverage on Green Bay Packers defensive lineman Anthony Hargrove, who will be suspended for the first eight games of the season unless the NFL shortens or eliminates the penalty. After Hargrove's explosive statement Tuesday afternoon, I will be fascinated to see if the league stands by the terms of Hargrove's penalty.
Certainly, Hargrove's statement included rhetoric (references to both Bill Clinton and the Mona Lisa) and some theatrics (asking reporters to walk into the NFL office and question league officials). But I urge you to look past that and recognize that Hargrove brought forth a compelling suggestion that one of the NFL's primary sources of evidence against him is a case of mistaken identity.
As we discussed Monday night, the league used an NFL Films video from the 2009 NFC Championship Game as evidence of a bounty in that game. NFL.com hosts a portion of that video on its website. If you watch it, starting at about the 4:30 mark, you can hear someone say, "Bobby, give me my money."
The NFL said Monday that Hargrove spoke the words, essentially seeking payment for a bounty hit against Minnesota Vikings quarterback Brett Favre.
Hargrove said Tuesday: "Here's the problem with that. It wasn't me. That’s right. The NFL got their evidence all wrong. In their rush to convict me, they made a very serious error. Is it intentional? I don't know. But one thing I do know with absolute certainty. It was not me. …
"It is not my voice. Anyone who knows me well knows that it is not me. But the NFL does not know me well. They simply make assumptions. With my life."
Go ahead and watch for yourself. You can see Hargrove's face at the right of the screen, and it appears he is speaking to defensive end Bobby McCray, who is not in the picture. You can see Hargrove say, "Bobby," but then he is obscured.
Hargrove wouldn't say who uttered the words, "give me my money." In the frame, you can see defensive tackle Remi Ayodele lean over to defensive lineman Will Smith and say something, but his back is to the camera.
Hargrove implied he will take measures to prove it was another player's voice, presumably through voice recognition software, and added: "I stake my life on the fact that it is not me."
If, in fact, someone other than Hargrove said those words, then the league would have made two important mistakes in claiming the video as evidence against Hargrove. As we discussed Monday night, it doesn't make sense that he would have sought bounty payment for a hit on Favre by two other players (McCray and Ayodele). Hargrove was called in the second quarter for unnecessary roughness after a hit on Favre, but no injury was recorded.
Further, it adds to the list of questionable evidence against Hargrove that already includes a mischaracterized declaration and a heavily disputed assertion that he told a member of the Vikings about the bounty program.
Hargrove said Tuesday he has been the victim of a "sophisticated mugging" and added: "This, in my mind, brings everything into question. Everything."
That's a fair statement. Even if it was an innocent mistake, a false identification of that magnitude invites further scrutiny on everything else the league has alleged. What other mistakes might have been made?
Again, our focus is narrow here. There is enough documented evidence to suggest that something happened. But is there anything that points to Hargrove's involvement? Slowly but surely, those bricks are falling off the wall. It'll be fascinating to see what happens next.Here is the full text of the statement the NFL just released on the final play of the Green Bay Packers' 14-12 loss to the Seattle Seahawks. In sum, the NFL admits that receiver Golden Tate should have been called for offensive pass interference after shoving Packers cornerback Sam Shields, a penalty that would have given the Packers the victory. But the league supported the decision not to overturn Tate's touchdown catch via instant replay. The result is final. Read what's below for yourself and we'll reconvene on the blog in a bit for discussion.
In Monday's game between the Green Bay Packers and Seattle Seahawks, Seattle faced a 4th-and-10 from the Green Bay 24 with eight seconds remaining in the game.
Seattle quarterback Russell Wilson threw a pass into the end zone. Several players, including Seattle wide receiver Golden Tate and Green Bay safety M.D. Jennings, jumped into the air in an attempt to catch the ball.
While the ball is in the air, Tate can be seen shoving Green Bay cornerback Sam Shields to the ground. This should have been a penalty for offensive pass interference, which would have ended the game. It was not called and is not reviewable in instant replay.
When the players hit the ground in the end zone, the officials determined that both Tate and Jennings had possession of the ball. Under the rule for simultaneous catch, the ball belongs to Tate, the offensive player. The result of the play was a touchdown.
Replay Official Howard Slavin stopped the game for an instant replay review. The aspects of the play that were reviewable included if the ball hit the ground and who had possession of the ball. In the end zone, a ruling of a simultaneous catch is reviewable. That is not the case in the field of play, only in the end zone.
Referee Wayne Elliott determined that no indisputable visual evidence existed to overturn the call on the field, and as a result, the on-field ruling of touchdown stood. The NFL Officiating Department reviewed the video today and supports the decision not to overturn the on-field ruling following the instant replay review.
The result of the game is final.
Applicable rules to the play are as follows:
A player (or players) jumping in the air has not legally gained possession of the ball until he satisfies the elements of a catch listed here.
Rule 8, Section 1, Article 3 of the NFL Rule Book defines a catch:
A forward pass is complete (by the offense) or intercepted (by the defense) if a player, who is inbounds:
(a) secures control of the ball in his hands or arms prior to the ball touching the ground; and
(b) touches the ground inbounds with both feet or with any part of his body other than his hands; and
(c) maintains control of the ball long enough, after (a) and (b) have been fulfilled, to enable him to perform any act common to the game (i.e., maintaining control long enough to pitch it, pass it, advance with it, or avoid or ward off an opponent, etc.).
When a player (or players) is going to the ground in the attempt to catch a pass, Rule 8, Section 1, Article 3, Item 1 states:
Player Going to the Ground. If a player goes to the ground in the act of catching a pass (with or without contact by an opponent), he must maintain control of the ball throughout the process of contacting the ground, whether in the field of play or the end zone. If he loses control of the ball, and the ball touches the ground before he regains control, the pass is incomplete. If he regains control prior to the ball touching the ground, the pass is complete.
Rule 8, Section 1, Article 3, Item 5 states:
Simultaneous Catch. If a pass is caught simultaneously by two eligible opponents, and both players retain it, the ball belongs to the passers. It is not a simultaneous catch if a player gains control first and an opponent subsequently gains joint control. If the ball is muffed after simultaneous touching by two such players, all the players of the passing team become eligible to catch the loose ball.GREEN BAY, Wis. -- The Packers don’t have the defending Super Bowl champs on their schedule in 2018, but they still will face the toughest schedule in the league based on their opponents’ 2017 records.
2018 NFL free agency Kirk Cousins. Jimmy Graham. Andrew Norwell. This class is already wild. Here's everything to know. • Barnwell's free agency & trade grades »
• Signings, analysis for all 32 teams »
• Ranking top 100 NFL free agents »
• Players who landed in perfect spots »
• Highest-paid players at every position »
• Who really got best free-agent deals? »
• Biggest remaining need for all 32 »
• Are Vikings NFC fave with Cousins? »
• Fantasy impact of key deals, moves »
The Packers’ 2018 opponents had a combined winning percentage of .539 last season. According to ESPN Stats & Information research, that ranks as slightly tougher than those of the Lions and Saints, whose opponent winning percentage last season was .535.
By that measure, the Texans have the easiest schedule. Their 2018 opponents had a combined winning percentage of just .453. The full team-by-team strength of schedule list can be found here.
The Packers will play at the Super Bowl-losing Patriots but do not have the champion Eagles on their schedule. Had the Patriots won Super Bowl LII, the Packers would have been a candidate to play in the NFL’s annual season-opening game hosted by the defending champions, on a Thursday night in Week 1.
Six of the Packers' 16 games will come against playoff teams: the Vikings (twice), Bills, Falcons, Rams and Patriots. Three of those are on the road: at Minnesota, Los Angeles and New England.
The Packers also will face a potential team on the rise in the 49ers, who won their final five games after Jimmy Garoppolo took over at quarterback to finish 6-10.
As they say in investment commercials, past performance doesn’t guarantee future success, so what might look like a difficult game in February might be a cakewalk in November, and vice versa. Going into 2017, the Packers' opponents had a combined .480 winning percentage the previous year; but those opponents went 138-118 (a .539 winning percentage) during the season.
And of course, the Packers should be better than their 7-9 record last season, as long as quarterback Aaron Rodgers doesn’t miss nine games again because of a broken collarbone.
The toughest thing about a schedule might be where and when the games are played, and although the opponents were all set in stone as soon as the 2017 season ended, the actual schedules won’t be announced until April.
As a reminder, the Packers’ 2018 opponents can be found here.Steve Mariucci still laughs today when he reflects on how the scenario unfolded.
Back before the 2001 season, Mariucci, then the head coach of the San Francisco 49ers, conducted numerous interviews for a defensive assistant/quality control coach position. He wanted someone willing to "grind" through the underappreciated aspects of NFL preparation.
The one person who stood out above both the veteran and inexperienced coaches interviewed was 30-year-old Dan Quinn, an assistant coach at the same Hofstra University (Hempstead, N.Y.) that produced then-49ers cornerback Lance Schulters and the team's 2000 third-round draft pick, quarterback Giovanni Carmazzi.
So Mariucci, obviously impressed with the energetic Quinn, prepared to offer him the job. Quinn was the defensive coordinator and defensive line coach at Hofstra at the time and still on the East Coast with his wife, Stacey.
Current Falcons head coach Dan Quinn got his start in the NFL with the 49ers as a defensive assistant/quality control coach. AP Photo/NFL Photos
"When he left the building, I told him, 'I'll call you tomorrow,' and I didn't call him back until very late at night," Mariucci said. "When I called him at like 10 o'clock at night, he picked up the phone and I said, 'Dan, this is Coach Mariucci. Can I talk to Stacey?' So he gave the phone to her.
"Then I said, 'Stacey, would you be excited about moving?' She had a job, so I said, 'Are you willing to move to the West Coast?' And she said, 'Absolutely I am, Coach.' Then I offered Dan the job. I wanted to make sure he was OK in moving cross country without leaving (her) behind or getting homesick. That's kind of how it all started."
Fourteen years later, Quinn is in his first season as a head coach and will take his 6-2 Atlanta Falcons out west Sunday to face the 49ers (2-6) -- the same franchise where he got his NFL start. Quinn really established his name as the Seattle Seahawks defensive coordinator the last two seasons, winning a Super Bowl along the way.
"At that point, it wasn't like, 'We just hired a future head coach,'" Mariucci said. "Guys move up the ladder in their careers because they do a good job and what's expected of them at the lower levels. Then they take the next step as a position coach and do a good job. Then they become a coordinator and do a good job. Now, they have track record of doing well. That's been his resume and his path to becoming a head coach. He's done everything required."
Quinn's job requirements that initial year, according to Mariucci, included breaking down opponents and importing it into computer files, completing self-scouts by noting defensive tendencies, submitting draft-related evaluations, and assisting on the field with the defensive line.
"He was a workaholic-type guy," Mariucci said. "He was willing to learn our system and do whatever you asked him to do. He was just a perfect fit. He came in and certainly didn't disappoint. He just kept his nose down and was grinding.
"Another thing I really learned about him once he hit the ground was that he was a good evaluator. He sat with the coaches and scouts in the draft meetings and he could articulate evaluations very well. He was clear in his explanations of what he thought of a player's ability."
Naturally, Mariucci liked what he saw from Quinn on the field in his ability to teach the fundamentals. Quinn's daily approach never wavered. And just like he does now, Quinn would put on the cleats and get involved in drills alongside the players.
There was one other aspect that really caught Mariucci's attention during that first year.
"He was one of those guys who would run the bleachers before the game," Mariucci said. "I think he still does that, too. I'd be at the hotel watching the pre-game shows, and he'd be out there running the bleachers."
Mariucci was let go by the 49ers following the 2002 season, so he wasn't there to see Quinn ascend to San Francisco's defensive line coach in 2003. Mariucci did, however, want to hire Quinn when he became the Detroit Lions coach in 2003, but the 49ers wouldn't allow it.
Quinn and Mariucci maintain a close bond to this day. Quinn, who previously admitted to "wearing out" ex-49ers defensive coordinator and one-time Falcons head coach Jim Mora Jr. about that quality control position, never forgets to credit Mariucci for his development.
"It's nice to hear that, but he's the guy who did the work," Mariucci said. "I gave him a chance, like John Robinson gave me a chance with the Rams. I'm really proud of Dan. There's a couple guys I brought in that I watched grow, like Adam Gase (Chicago Bears offensive coordinator) and Jason Tarver (49ers linebackers coach).
"As you grow, you have to go through some adversity. You see that right now with Dan and the Falcons. But he's the right type of coach. He has the right personality to handle adversity. He's got that constant demeanor and is just pretty steady."SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- Lest anyone think his prior praise of San Francisco 49ers right tackle Trent Brown was hyperbole, Denver Broncos pass-rusher Von Miller strengthened his already glowing opinion of Brown after the teams practiced together on Wednesday.
"I’ve said it before, he’s a great tackle," Miller said. "He is the best right tackle in the National Football League, if not a top-five offensive tackle, period. So going against Trent Brown and Joe Staley, they have two of the best tackles. Trent Brown is one of the best in the National Football League and Joe Staley has been one of the best for a long time."
Almost exactly a year after Miller praised Brown as "one of the better tackles in the NFL" for how he held up in pass protection in joint practices with the Niners in Denver, the teams reconvened in the Bay Area on Wednesday for the first of two workouts together.
Trent Brown lost a significant amount of weight coming into camp and is moving better than ever. AP Photo/Jeff Chiu
During the course of that practice, Brown and Miller matched up multiple times. Early in the session, Brown took on Miller in one-on-one pass-blocking drills, and Miller quickly blew past him on the first try. After a brief meeting with Staley and offensive line coach John Benton, Brown fared much better the second time, initially pushing Miller out wide then quickly shuffling his feet to cut Miller off before he could dip his shoulder to go inside and get to the quarterback.
Brown followed with another strong rep, then held up well during team drills. Perhaps it shouldn't have come as a surprise given the work Miller and Brown have done together previously.
When Miller hosted his "Pass Rush Academy" at Stanford over the summer, Brown was the only offensive lineman to get an invite, though he wasn't the only 49er in attendance.
Throughout this training camp, Brown has earned plenty of praise for his efforts to get in shape and come back ready to go in coach Kyle Shanahan's offensive scheme. He reported for the team's offseason program well over his listed playing weight of 355 pounds. Challenged to come back in the best shape of his three-year career, the 6-foot-8 Brown did just that, reporting for camp at less than the 358-pound target weight the team set for him.
“I know he’s worked very hard to do that and we’re very proud of him for doing that,” Shanahan said. “The thing is, it doesn’t end right there, though. It’s every day. And it’s going to be every day forever for him. He’s a guy that can put on weight fast. But when he’s on it and he’s at his right weight, he’s tough to deal with.”
Working at a reduced weight, Brown has been able to show the necessary athleticism to get to the second level and do what's necessary to run block in Shanahan's outside zone scheme. In the process, he's staved off any competition from restricted free agent Garry Gilliam, who was brought in to provide a challenge.
Whatever battle might have been taking place at right tackle seems to have dissipated, though, as Brown has taken the majority of the reps there. Right guard Brandon Fusco, who lines up next to Brown every day, would agree with Miller's assessment of his linemate.
"I don’t know how much weight he’s lost, but he’s lost a ton," Fusco said. "You can see it in how he moves. It’s unbelievable for his size. He’s moving as fast as I am and I’m half his size."Aaron Donald gives credit to the basement gym in his house growing up for helping him become the player he is today. (4:22)
LOS ANGELES -- Aaron Donald was uncommonly sentimental on the afternoon of Dec. 23. He had just broken the record for sacks by a defensive tackle, accumulating 19.5 with a game remaining, and so he found himself on the verge of tears as he rode the Los Angeles Rams' bus out of State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, that Sunday. There, Donald crafted long, heartfelt text messages for all of the people who helped mold him into what might now be the greatest, fiercest player in the NFL.
The first one went to his father, Archie Donald, and the first sentence was poignant.
“You created a monster.”
That monster was built in the Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar neighborhood of Pittsburgh, a gritty suburb in the northeast section of the city. It was built in the basement of that unmistakable two-story brick house with the red-and-white awning, in the homemade gymnasium that Aaron began to work out in before sunrise as a high school freshman. It was built, in many ways, by Archie, a former nose tackle and longtime workout junkie who introduced Aaron to strength training as a way to inject structure into his son’s life, igniting the obsession that precipitated greatness.
“A lot of my success, and a lot of who I am now, is because of my dad, and the way he raised me and taught me how to have a work ethic,” Donald told ESPN. “I always tell my dad he was training me to be a pro before he even knew it.”
Super Bowl LIII: Pats 13, Rams 3 What you need to know off the game:
• O'Connor: Appreciate this Pats dynasty »
• Barnwell: Inside the defensive masterpiece »
• Graziano: How the Patriots stymied McVay »
• TB12 makes history with sixth Super Bowl »
• Patriots' defense leads the way »
• Patriots keep rewriting record book »
• WR Edelman earns MVP honors »
• Interesting prop bets that cashed »
• Rams likely contenders for years to come »
• Early '19 Power Rankings » | 10 predictions »
More Super Bowl » | NFL coverage »
Archie grew up in the southern part of Homewood, historically one of the most violent areas of Pittsburgh. He once won a weightlifting competition by bench pressing 405 pounds, and eventually became the subject of folklore for the vicious hits he delivered on the field, some of which allegedly broke helmets. Archie played football up until his freshman year at Norfolk State. He broke his kneecap and never returned.
Years later, his youngest son, Aaron, began to make a name for himself while dominating older kids as a short, stumpy fullback and defensive lineman. But Aaron ate too much and worked too little. He was admittedly “lazy as a kid,” and Archie strove to change that. He lit a fire under Aaron by introducing him to weightlifting at the age of 12. Two years later, Archie ran out of workout partners and summoned Aaron to lift weights with him before work.
Wake-up time was 4:30 a.m. They met in the basement by 4:45 and worked out every muscle group for nearly two hours every weekday morning.
“He was a little lazy about it at first until he started seeing a change in his body,” Archie said. “That’s how it usually works when you’re lifting weights. You don’t like it because it hurts. But when you start seeing a change in your body, then and only then do you start doing it. And at that point, once he started seeing a change in his body, by the time he was coming out of high school -- I mean, man, he was waking me up every morning trying to get a workout.”
Dewayne Brown provides speed-and-agility training for athletes of all ages in the Pittsburgh area and has been working with Donald since he was in high school. Over the past two offseasons, while Donald held out in hopes of a lucrative contract extension, the two spent basically 14 of 24 months together. Donald began his workouts for the 2018 season in late January, only a couple of weeks after his Rams were eliminated by the Atlanta Falcons in the wild-card round of the playoffs.
On the first day, Donald told Brown he hadn’t yet played his best football.
“My eyes shot up,” Brown said. “But I believed him.”
Donald was the 2017 NFL Defensive Player of the Year. He was also named first-team All-Pro for the third consecutive time and registered 11 sacks in 14 games, tying a career high. And yet he swore there was more in him.
“I just knew I could play better,” Donald said. “I could clean things up as far as playing the run a little better, rushing the passer a little better.”
Donald somehow reached another level this season for a Rams team that finished the regular season 13-3 and will play the New England Patriots in the Super Bowl from Atlanta on Sunday (6:30 p.m. ET, CBS). He recorded 20.5 sacks, two shy of the overall record set by Michael Strahan and 2.5 more than the defensive tackle record set by Keith Millard. He tallied 73 pressures, according to NFL Next Gen Stats, more than anyone in the league despite facing an inordinate amount of double- and triple-teams as an interior lineman.
The presence of free-agent defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh was supposed to open everything up, but Los Angeles defensive coordinator Wade Phillips said opposing centers have been shifting over to double Donald on almost every pass-rush snap.
Rams offensive lineman Rodger Saffold doesn’t blame them.
“That would be my plan,” he said. “But if you don’t do it effectively, then he’s going to beat you. Because all he has to do is choose who he wants and then go from there. That quickness is a big part of his game, but it’s the power once he gets there that changes everything.”
Donald was double-teamed on 60.5 percent of his pass-rush snaps, the third-highest rate in the league, according to NFL Next Gen Stats. Still, his pass-rush win rate -- the number of times a player beats blocks within 2.5 seconds -- was an NFL-best 38.8 percent.
Donald became the only All-Pro to garner all 50 votes and is now the third defensive lineman since 1965 to be first-team All-Pro four times in five seasons, joining J.J. Watt and Reggie White. On Saturday, he’ll likely join Watt and Hall of Famer Lawrence Taylor as the only players to win back-to-back Defensive Player of the Year awards.
Some, like Brown, see a man who summoned extra motivation to validate his contract. Others, like Saffold, will tell you Donald has become smarter about anticipating where the help will come from, then beating the guard off the snap before it even arrives. Others notice sheer anger.
Aaron Donald's dad said his son was a little lazy and overweight before he began weightlifting with his father. Courtesy Donald family
“It’s almost like he takes it personal now,” Rams defensive lineman Ethan Westbrooks said.
“He’s playing with an attitude,” Donald’s older brother, Archie Jr., added. “Even though he got that big paycheck, he still plays with a chip on his shoulder.”
Archie’s heart skips a beat every time Aaron calls. They usually communicate through text messages, so the rare phone call triggers apprehension. That feeling swept over Archie on an otherwise lazy morning in late August, when his phone began to ring and Aaron was on the other side. Archie was lying on the couch watching "NFL Total Access" and hearing about all the players signing exorbitant contracts, none of whom included his son.
Then Aaron began to talk.
“Hang up your cleats,” he said. “You’re done.”
“You sure?” Archie asked, already knowing what that meant. “I’ve been waiting my whole life to hear that.”
“Retire,” Aaron told him. “Sit back and watch the games now, old fella, it’s all on me.”
Aaron had just agreed to a six-year, $135 million extension that included $87 million guaranteed and, for a brief moment -- until Khalil Mack signed a slightly larger deal with the Chicago Bears a day later -- made him the highest-paid defensive player in history.
Immediately after agreeing to terms, Aaron called his mom and dad.
“You could hear them crying over the phone,” he said.
Archie grew up without a father and vowed to be an enduring presence in his children’s lives. He ran a commercial cleaning company for a while, but it faded after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks that soured the economy. He later worked in construction, delivered phone books and recycled tires, piecing together odd jobs in order to make ends meet. His ex-wife, Anita Goggins, initially stayed home to care for the couple’s three children and later drove buses.
Aaron and Archie Jr., who is three years older, shared bunk beds as kids, and the thought of someday helping their parents retire was a frequent topic of conversation. Over the years, it evolved into a dream that drove Aaron. It pushed him through the early-morning workouts, sharpened his focus in the wake of persistent double-teams and triggered the aggression that made him unstoppable.
“We sat there together and it brought tears to our eyes, man,” said Archie Jr., a standout linebacker at Toledo who bounced around the NFL as an undrafted free agent before retiring in 2012. “I mean, to be a part of that, to be a part of that call, to be a part of seeing him call his parents, our parents, and tell them, ‘You're done, you don't have to work’ -- that’s something that I always wanted to do, and I got to be a part of it through my little brother.”
When Aaron won Defensive Rookie of the Year in 2014, he surprised his father with a pickup truck. For his 53rd, and most recent, birthday, he bought him a $40,000 Rolex Sky-Dweller watch (Aaron regrets telling Archie the price because he now refuses to wear it). Weeks after he signed the extension, Aaron’s mother and father met with his financial advisor, who presented a portfolio that promised $1 million for each -- with taxes paid off -- and a brand-new home of their choosing.
They both retired immediately, a moment Aaron thought about “a lot” as a kid.
“But it was just a dream,” he said. “You never think that you would have opportunities to do what you’re doing. You always dream things, but I feel like the stuff that I dreamed was small compared to what’s happening now.”
Rams general manager Les Snead sat in his office in Earth City, Missouri, in the lead-up to the 2014 draft watching tape of Donald at the University of Pittsburgh. Kevin Demoff, the chief operating officer, walked in and noted that it was “good point-of-attack film,” which is basically a highlight reel for offensive and defensive linemen.
“No,” Snead told Demoff, “this is just a normal game.”
Concerns about Donald’s height -- he’s listed at 6-foot-1 -- limited him to three scholarship offers coming out of high school and gave him a fifth-round grade after his junior season at Pitt. But he always jumped off the screen, from pee wee football to high school and the Atlantic Coast Conference.
“I say this in every interview, but nobody could ever block him from the first time he put on a helmet and shoulder pads,” Archie said. “There was no way you were going to block that kid. No way.”
Brown, the trainer, first met Donald at a scout camp in the summer before his senior year of high school. Donald forgot his cleats that day and dominated every other kid in sneakers. Five years later, Rams defensive line coach Bill Johnson, at that time coaching for the New Orleans Saints, saw Donald at the Senior Bowl and deemed him “by far the best player on the field.”
Mike Waufle, the Rams defensive line coach at the time, begged his team to pick him.
“I felt like he was the best college player I’d seen, even when I was in college football, at that position,” Waufle said. “A lot of people didn’t like him because he was undersized. I said he’s the best player that I’d seen at that position. I had him on my board higher than Jadeveon Clowney at that time. So, I made a big push.”
Donald became the best defensive player in college football by his senior year at Pittsburgh. Charles LeClaire/USA TODAY Sports
When Donald came to the Rams’ facility as part of a visit, Waufle brought him into the draft room, where Demoff, Snead and former head coach Jeff Fisher were watching film of quarterbacks. Waufle, a former Marine who stands 6-foot-4, crouched slightly and wrapped his arm around his new favorite player.
“I want you guys to meet Aaron Donald,” he said, a big smile on his face.
When the draft began, Waufle muted his TV and buried himself in paperwork. He looked up after the eighth pick, scrolled through the list of names and couldn’t believe Donald wasn’t among them. Four picks later, Waufle snuck back into the draft room.
“You got your guy,” Fisher told him.
“That was pretty cool,” Waufle said of the Rams taking Donald at No. 13 overall.
Shortly after Donald joined the team, Waufle pulled him aside. He told Donald he was going to hear a lot of talk about technique and that he wanted him to ignore all of it. “Just play,” Waufle told Donald. The fundamentals would come later, and the arsenal of pass-rush moves would expand with it. But Waufle didn’t want to bog Donald down with too much, fearing it would dilute his special gifts.
Waufle, who coached at the collegiate and professional levels for nearly 40 years until retiring after the 2017 season, was asked if he ever shared a similar message with another rookie.
“Never even thought about it,” he said. “Ever. Ever, ever. I wouldn’t do that with anybody else.”
Archie moved into the house Aaron bought him last month. His sons never let him sell the old place, which means that basement gym -- “The Dungeon,” as Aaron affectionately calls it -- remains intact. Archie, Archie Jr. and Aaron still work out there in the offseason from time to time. The new home is in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania, a stone’s throw from where Archie Jr. and Aaron attended high school.
On the immediate right of the front door is a framed photo of Aaron in a tuxedo, posing in front of seven collegiate awards after his breakout senior year. In the corner of that wall is the Bronko Nagurski Trophy for the best collegiate defensive player, which Aaron won on Archie’s birthday. Downstairs, in the new basement, lies a scrapbook that contains a perfect juxtaposition.
Donald led the NFL in sacks this season. Joe Robbins/Getty Images
On one page is a photo of a pre-teen Aaron posing on the sand in Virginia Beach, Virginia, using a boogie board to hide his pudgy stomach.
On another page is a photo of Aaron before the homecoming dance during high school, wearing a tight muscle shirt to show off his sculpted physique.
“The before and the after,” Archie said in a hearty laugh. “That’s the transformation right there.”
Archie, who attends all of the Rams’ home games, comforted Aaron through the first three weeks of the season, when the sacks weren’t coming and Aaron was starting to put pressure on himself to live up to his contract. He then watched his son go off, Aaron notching two or more sacks in seven of his next 13 games, a stretch that included 40 quarterback hits and four forced fumbles. His fourth-quarter prowess against the Seattle Seahawks, Minnesota Vikings, Kansas City Chiefs and Detroit Lions basically won games.
“I can’t believe he’s that good,” Archie said when asked what he thinks about when he watches Aaron play. “It’s the honest-to-God truth. I can’t believe he’s that good.”
Aaron’s work ethic has become almost as legendary as his play. Archie Jr. begs him to take vacations every offseason, but he won’t do it. If he messes up a drill during those grueling speed-and-agility sessions, he does it all over again. As a rookie, Aaron used to leave the facility with the rest of the team on Fridays, then would be the only one to come back, staying through the night to analyze tendencies of opposing offensive linemen.
“I would always leave,” Snead said, “and his car was always there.”
The determination stemmed from Archie’s workouts, though Archie is uncomfortable accepting credit.
“I just led him to the water,” he said. “It’s all Aaron now at this point.”
Aaron echoes that sentiment often. He made that point to his parents when he informed them that they could retire, and he did it again after breaking Millard’s record four months later, in the final sentence of the drawn-out text message that he sent to Archie.
“I work hard to make you and mommy millionaires,” Aaron wrote. “The best is yet to come.”NFL scorekeepers changed Arizona Cardinals linebacker Daryl Washington's 40-yard interception return for a touchdown into a 39-yard return with a fumble.
Teammate Darnell Dockett recovered in the end zone.
Dockett gets the touchdown. Washington learns a lesson about finishing plays.
The Denver Broncos' Lance Ball hustled downfield to knock loose the football after Washington appeared to lose focus toward the end of his return.
One positive for Washington and the Cardinals on the fumble: Dockett's recovery gave Arizona six fumble recoveries for touchdowns this season, an NFL record. Four teams had accomplished the feat five times in a season, most recently Oakland in 1978. The San Francisco 49ers did it in 1965.NFL labor tensions have produced insults, threats and widening divisions -- among allies.
"I will smash ur face in," New York Jets cornerback Antonio Cromartie tweeted to Seattle Seahawks quarterback Matt Hasselbeck recently.
Commissioner Roger Goodell and NFL Players Association executive director DeMaurice Smith have conversed on a higher plane, but not by much. They have until March 4 to forge a new collective bargaining agreement.
Without an agreement, the league and its players risk dragging fans into a world without rules, one sure to carry unintended consequences. Ten things to know about the labor situation and what a lockout could mean:
This isn't about 18-game seasons or a rookie wage scale. The league and its players might already have an agreement if those were the primary issues. Owners want to redefine what revenues they share with players. They want some of the money players are getting to help cover costs associated with building and maintaining stadiums and facilities. Owners see these expenditures as good for the game. Players see them as good for owners' wallets. Once the sides agree on what goes into the revenue pie, they can work out percentage breakdowns.
No agreement means no free agency. The CBA determines qualifications for reaching free agency. In the past, players with at least four accrued seasons could become unrestricted free agents. Nearly 500 players would qualify under those guidelines this offseason, but only if there is an agreement. Those players could have no prospects without a new CBA. Teams hoping to upgrade their rosters could be stuck.
The draft would go forward. Teams would select college players, but a long list of questions would follow. Would those players sign contracts? Would teams retain rights to those players? Would there be a rookie wage scale?
Forget about trading players. The NFL trading period would generally open in March, but that will not happen without a new CBA. Teams couldn't even trade players during the draft, cutting off a widely used avenue for player acquisition.
Players stand to lose millions quickly. According to the league, 74 players stand to earn more than $140 million in bonuses and other compensation this March. They wouldn't collect that money during a lockout. These players will feel the effects of a lockout long before fans feel the effects.
Players have other immediate concerns. Players accustomed to seeing team doctors and visiting team facilities for treatments would suddenly become responsible for their own health care during a lockout. Securing benefits for family members with special health needs could create challenges. This is an immediate concern among players behind the scenes, but one that doesn't draw much attention from the outside.
Sponsorship money is at stake. Some of the league's sponsors might not honor their contracts with the league if the NFL shuts down. That would hit owners and players by shrinking the revenue pie. It's revenue the league would not recoup.
Union decertification could become an adventure. If teams lock out players, the NFLPA could move to decertify, clearing the way for players to challenge the league's antitrust status in the courts. That initial move could trigger a lengthy battle, and a defeat in the courts would prove disastrous to players. What if teams went about signing players in the absence of a union? No one knows for sure.
Assistant coaches would be in limbo. Teams would presumably want assistant coaches to continue working through the draft, but that could vary by team. Many assistant coaches' contracts call for reduced pay during a lockout. The assistants can usually earn back the money if there's a labor agreement in place by the regular season, but September remains a long way off. Teams with new coaching staffs would have a difficult time implementing new schemes.The NFL's mandatory reduction to 53 players provides an opportunity to revisit team age rankings.
Every team has young players. Every coach can speak to youth at specific positions.
It'll be tough for the Arizona Cardinals or St. Louis Rams to blame any defensive struggles on overall youth, however. Both teams rank among the NFL's three oldest on defense, behind Pittsburgh, according to the rosters I maintain for every team in the league.
Arizona defenders Nick Eason, Darnell Dockett, Joey Porter, Clark Haggans, Paris Lenon and Adrian Wilson are all in their 30s, as are Rams defensive players Fred Robbins, James Hall, Justin Bannan, Ben Leber, Brady Poppinga and Quintin Mikell.
Seattle has three defenders in their 30s: Raheem Brock, Marcus Trufant and Junior Siavii. San Francisco has two: Justin Smith and Carlos Rogers.
The chart ranks teams by overall age, from oldest to youngest. I've also included rankings for defense, offense and specialists. Ages are calculated to the day, not just to the year. For example, the 49ers' Andy Lee and Adam Snyder are both 29, but Lee was born 193 days later. Those days count in the calculation.
The defending conference champs reside at opposite ends of the age spectrum, proving there's more than one way to build a championship-caliber team. I'd rather be young and bad than old and bad, however, given the potential for improvement.
.
2011 NFL Age Ranks at 53-man CutdownThe San Francisco 49ers placed three linebackers on the Associated Press' All-Pro first team for 2012. A fourth 49ers linebacker earned second-team All-Pro honors.
Matt Williamson Ranks West by Position
There was really no debate, then, when Matt Williamson ranked NFC West teams at the position heading into the 2013 NFL draft. Williamson, who scouts the NFL for ESPN.com, covered this position more quickly than some of the others we've discussed previously.
Williamson: San Francisco has the best linebackers in the league, times 10. Some people on Twitter are saying Aldon Smith and Ahmad Brooks are more D-ends than linebackers, but they are linebackers.
Sando: You've already said the 49ers were best in the NFL on the offensive line. This gives them two positions of supremacy in your eyes. Patrick Willis and NaVorro Bowman were first-team All-Pro choices last season. Smith was first-team All-Pro at outside linebacker for his 19.5-sack season. Brooks was the second-teamer. I've gone through the record books and failed to find a similar display of dominance at linebacker from one team in one season.
Williamson: Seattle is very easily No. 2. The Seahawks could use another outside guy, but so what? They are easy to find.
Sando: The Seahawks found one starter in the second round (Bobby Wagner) and another in the fourth (K.J. Wright). They plan to use Cliff Avril at strong-side linebacker in some situations. But with Leroy Hill apparently having run his course in Seattle, the team figures to draft a weak-side linebacker to compete with Malcolm Smith.
Williamson: They should be fine. I think St. Louis and Arizona are hurting in that department. Outside of James Laurinaitis, St. Louis is light at linebacker. Arizona has Daryl Washington and he was tremendous last year. I didn't factor in his four-game suspension to start the season. Their outside linebackers are adequate on a good day.
Sando: I'd say Jo-Lonn Dunbar was a pleasant surprise at outside linebacker for the Rams last season. The Cardinals released Stewart Bradley and appear to be moving on from Paris Lenon. They're counting on better health from O'Brien Schofield. Either Schofield or Sam Acho could break out, I would say, but that's not assured.
Williamson: Their outside linebackers are adequate on a good day. That might be as big a need as offensive line if they continue to play a 3-4.
Sando: There's some uncertainty over what form the Cardinals' defense will take, but none regarding which NFC West team's linebackers stand tallest.The NFL has finally informed teams how much franchise players will cost them in 2012.
The numbers are very close to widely reported projections.
Arizona defensive end Calais Campbell and San Francisco safety Dashon Goldson were the only NFC West players hit with franchise tags this year. Each will receive a one-year offer for the values associated with their positions. Those values form the basis for negotiations on long-term agreements. That explains why teams are selective in how they use the tag.
Seattle wants to keep defensive end Red Bryant, but not badly enough to set his value at $10.6 million per season.
The Seahawks are betting that the market will not value a run-stuffing end at that level. Bryant is arguably the team's most important player against the run. He played about two-thirds of the defensive snaps last season, finishing with one sack and two interceptions. Bryant also blocked three field-goal tries and one extra-point attempt. The team values his presence in the locker room as well.
But that $10.6 million average reflects the figure set largely by pass-rushing ends. Campbell, despite playing in a 3-4 scheme, has 21 sacks over the past three seasons. He had eight sacks in 2011, plus 10 passes defensed and three blocked field-goal tries.
The franchise tag made sense for the 49ers as they sought to keep Goldson with the team at least one more season. The one-year rate for safeties is $6.2 million.
The values for cornerbacks (nearly $10.3 million) and wide receivers ($9.5 million) were too steep for NFC West teams' budgets. The 49ers' Carlos Rogers earned Pro Bowl honors at corner, but the team opted against setting his value north of $10 million annually. The St. Louis Rams need all the playmakers they can get, but they weren't willing to bet $9.5 million a year on Brandon Lloyd's ability to produce at a high level consistently in their new offense. Rogers and Lloyd both turn 31 before training camps open.
The fine print: One-year salaries for franchise players become guaranteed upon signing. Franchise players rarely attract attention in free agency, because any suitor would have to part with two first-round draft choices if the players' current teams declined their right to match outside offers. Franchise players must sit out the 2012 season if they do not sign between Tuesday and Nov. 13. Unsigned franchise players become unrestricted free agents if their teams withdraw the tag.BOURBONNAIS, Ill. -- Chicago Bears veteran defensive end Akiem Hicks has emerged as a strong candidate to receive a contract extension.
Hicks, 27, was spotted alongside his agents on the campus of Olivet Nazarene University late Wednesday afternoon.
Play ESPN Fantasy Football More people play on ESPN than anywhere else. Join or create a league in the No. 1 Fantasy Football game! Sign up for free!
Hicks signed a two-year deal with Chicago that included $5.5 million in guaranteed money last offseason. The defensive lineman outperformed the contract, recording a career-high 71 tackles and seven sacks in 16 starts. Hicks was named NFC Defensive Player of the Week for his performance versus the San Francisco 49ers on Dec. 4, when he recorded 13 tackles, two sacks and one forced fumble.
“I love the city, man,” Hicks said earlier Wednesday. “I feel like it’s funny because, I was coming to Chicago long before I played for the Bears. My mother’s from here. I know when I was a free agent and my mom found out that -- I’m a momma’s boy, obviously -- when my mom found out Chicago was a team that was interested in me coming here, she was ecstatic. She was excited. She wanted me to be here. She wanted to be able to come here and see her son play in her home city. In living here, I’ve grown to love it -- go Cubs. I just enjoy my time here and I’m completely open to ending my career here.”
The Bears extended outside linebacker Willie Young's contract during last year’s training camp.With a Super Bowl win already under his belt, Russell Wilson keeps the Seahawks in contention every year, regardless of supporting cast. (1:27)
As the April 15 deadline for Russell Wilson's contract approached, condensing what would have been months of speculation into a few weeks, there were (unfounded) rumors that he wanted to play elsewhere and (accurate) reports that his agent was seeking an unprecedented mechanism that would have tied the quarterback's annual compensation to the salary cap.
The outcome, though, was the most predictable one all along: Wilson staying with the Seattle Seahawks -- and doing so on a conventionally structured contract.
Details of his four-year, $140 million extension provided to ESPN by league sources confirm as much.
As reported, a $65 million signing bonus makes up more than half of the $107 million in overall guarantees. That was one way the two sides worked around the Seahawks' precedent -- on which the team held firm -- of not fully guaranteeing money beyond the first year of a new deal.
So Wilson's previously scheduled $17 million salary for 2019 was reduced to $5 million, which is fully guaranteed. His 2020-2023 salaries are guaranteed for injury only at signing and vest into full guarantees (meaning for injury, skill and cap) on the fifth day of each league year waiver period, which begins after the Super Bowl. That is how the Seahawks have been structuring guarantees for several seasons.
So for Wilson, the trade-off for not having any full guarantees beyond 2019 is getting a $65 million signing bonus, which breaks the record Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers set last year at $57.5 million. Part of the signing-bonus payment is deferred to a later date, which makes sense for the team (for cash-flow purposes) and for Wilson (because of the tax implications). The $107 million in overall guarantees also is a record, as is Wilson's new-money average of $35 million.
The final two seasons, 2022 and '23, include $5 million roster bonuses that are due on the fifth day of the league year, which begins with the start of free agency. Those types of roster bonuses favor players. If a team is going to cut a player before the end of his contract, it almost certainly would happen for paying him $5 million. Thus, the bonus spurs action on the team's part and puts the player in the best position to find his next team.
Wilson's agent, Mark Rodgers, surely fought to move that money from base salaries to roster bonuses for the same reason he fought for the no-trade clause that helped push the deal through -- to give Wilson some protection in the event the Seahawks wanted to move on before the end of his contract.
As reported by ESPN last week, Wilson has an additional $6 million in incentives tied to performance and awards that is available on the back end of the contract. That could push the overall value of the extension to $146 million.
Here's the year-by-year breakdown:
2019
Base salary: $5 million (fully guaranteed at signing)
Cap number: $26,286,766
2020
Base salary: $18 million (guaranteed for injury at signing, becomes fully guaranteed on fifth day of league year waiver period)
Cap number: $31 million
2021
Base salary: $19 million (guaranteed for injury at signing, becomes fully guaranteed on fifth day of league year waiver period)
Cap number: $32 million
2022
Base salary: $19 million
Cap number: $37 million
Roster bonus: $5 million (due on fifth day of league year)
2023With a Super Bowl win already under his belt, Russell Wilson keeps the Seahawks in contention every year, regardless of supporting cast. (1:27)
As the April 15 deadline for Russell Wilson's contract approached, condensing what would have been months of speculation into a few weeks, there were (unfounded) rumors that he wanted to play elsewhere and (accurate) reports that his agent was seeking an unprecedented mechanism that would have tied the quarterback's annual compensation to the salary cap.
The outcome, though, was the most predictable one all along: Wilson staying with the Seattle Seahawks -- and doing so on a conventionally structured contract.
Details of his four-year, $140 million extension provided to ESPN by league sources confirm as much.
As reported, a $65 million signing bonus makes up more than half of the $107 million in overall guarantees. That was one way the two sides worked around the Seahawks' precedent -- on which the team held firm -- of not fully guaranteeing money beyond the first year of a new deal.
So Wilson's previously scheduled $17 million salary for 2019 was reduced to $5 million, which is fully guaranteed. His 2020-2023 salaries are guaranteed for injury only at signing and vest into full guarantees (meaning for injury, skill and cap) on the fifth day of each league year waiver period, which begins after the Super Bowl. That is how the Seahawks have been structuring guarantees for several seasons.
So for Wilson, the trade-off for not having any full guarantees beyond 2019 is getting a $65 million signing bonus, which breaks the record Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers set last year at $57.5 million. Part of the signing-bonus payment is deferred to a later date, which makes sense for the team (for cash-flow purposes) and for Wilson (because of the tax implications). The $107 million in overall guarantees also is a record, as is Wilson's new-money average of $35 million.
The final two seasons, 2022 and '23, include $5 million roster bonuses that are due on the fifth day of the league year, which begins with the start of free agency. Those types of roster bonuses favor players. If a team is going to cut a player before the end of his contract, it almost certainly would happen for paying him $5 million. Thus, the bonus spurs action on the team's part and puts the player in the best position to find his next team.
Wilson's agent, Mark Rodgers, surely fought to move that money from base salaries to roster bonuses for the same reason he fought for the no-trade clause that helped push the deal through -- to give Wilson some protection in the event the Seahawks wanted to move on before the end of his contract.
As reported by ESPN last week, Wilson has an additional $6 million in incentives tied to performance and awards that is available on the back end of the contract. That could push the overall value of the extension to $146 million.
Here's the year-by-year breakdown:
2019
Base salary: $5 million (fully guaranteed at signing)
Cap number: $26,286,766
2020
Base salary: $18 million (guaranteed for injury at signing, becomes fully guaranteed on fifth day of league year waiver period)
Cap number: $31 million
2021
Base salary: $19 million (guaranteed for injury at signing, becomes fully guaranteed on fifth day of league year waiver period)
Cap number: $32 million
2022
Base salary: $19 million
Cap number: $37 million
Roster bonus: $5 million (due on fifth day of league year)
2023ARLINGTON, Texas -- Brandon Carr admittedly struggled in the first half against the Oakland Raiders.
That most of it came against former Cowboys practice squad wide receiver Andre Holmes made it worse to fans who expect more out of the $50 million cornerback.
But when it mattered most Thursday, Carr came up with the biggest play of the game for the Dallas defense in a 31-24 victory.
Leading 28-21 the defense buckled when Holmes caught a 35-yard pass from quarterback Matt McGloin to the Dallas 21. Two plays later from the 20 McGloin chose to go at Carr with Jacoby Ford running a go route down the sideline.
“He just threw it up and they’d got enough big balls on us throughout the game,” Carr said. “I figured it was time to go ahead and make a play and shift the momentum.”
Carr was able to out-jump Ford for the ball to come down with his third interception of the season. The Cowboys’ offense then drove 79 yards on 14 plays, eating up 6 minutes and 43 seconds before settling for a 19-yard field goal by Dan Bailey with 1:56 to play.
In the first half Holmes was able to beat Carr down the sideline on a similar play to the Cowboys' 1 after a replay review overturned what had been a touchdown.
“I was playing off this time,” Carr said. “Just good ball placement by the quarterback. He read it and threw it to his big guys to go up and leap for the ball.”
Tested a second time, Carr would not get fooled again.
“Just keep playing,” coach Jason Garrett said. “It’s the nature of the league, cornerbacks isolated out on islands. The quarterbacks and receivers in this league are good. The other guys, they’re going to win sometimes ... B-Carr just kind of hung in there and kept battling and eventually he made the play in the end zone. It was a big play for us.”EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- It started with the long snapper.
In their preparation leading up to Sunday's game, the Jets noticed that Oakland long snapper Jon Condo didn't perform proper drops after his snaps. The Jets believed they could capitalize on this and worked all week on exploiting that tendency.
Antonio Allen blocked his second punt of the season. AP Photo/Kathy Willens
In the second quarter Sunday, that preparation resulted in Antonio Allen getting a free path to Oakland punter Marquette King. Allen knew a game-changing play was about to happen.
"We about to make money off this," Allen thought.
Allen blocked the punt and recovered it in the end zone to help the Jets to their 37-27 win over the Raiders on Sunday at MetLife Stadium. It marked Allen's second blocked punt of the season (his first was on Oct. 7 against the Falcons).
"It feels good to make a play on special teams. I've been trying to get out there and make whatever happens with my playing time," he said. "It's big for me and big for the team, and we got the victory."
Oakland has been susceptible to blocked punts in MetLife Stadium this season as they also had one blocked and returned for a score when they visited the Giants on Nov. 10. The Giants too said they saw something in Oakland's formations they believed they could take advantage of.
According to Allen, the Jets swung cornerback Ellis Lankster in front of Condo, and Allen shot the A-gap to get his free shot, knocking the ball down toward the Oakland end zone. He tried to pick it up, but Allen couldn't corral it and just fell on top of it in the end zone. Allen's touchdown marked his second of the season, and he's the first Jets' defensive back with multiple touchdowns since 2010.
"It felt weird, they just let me loose" Allen said. "I was surprised I thought the tackle was going to give me some kind of push but he didn't touch me, he just let me go right through. It was big for us."
As Allen made the big play on special teams, he also was more involved in the defensive game plan after three straight games of sparse playing time. Since the arrival of Ed Reed, Allen, who has shown promise in his sophomore campaign, has seen a reduction in his playing time to the point that he barely plays.
Jets coach Rex Ryan said he had made a mistake not playing Allen more and he aimed to remedy that Sunday. Allen played just 24 snaps in the previous three games, and he was in that neighborhood of snaps against the Raiders. He played extensively in the first half.
Allen, who believes he was having a "productive" season before Reed arrived, was down on himself after the game for not making an interception during Oakland's final drive.
"That's a play I got to make," Allen said. "With the defensive plays I do get I got to maximize my play time and make something happen."In the midst of the shutout performance by the Seattle defense, the first of the year for the Seahawks, coach Pete Carroll made a point after the game Sunday to praise his young quarterback.
Russell Wilson now is the only quarterback in NFL history to win 23 games in his first two NFL season. He also joined Dan Marino and Peyton Manning as he only quarterbacks ever to throw at least 50 touchdowns passes in their first two seasons.
“He’s so special,” Carroll said of Wilson. “He’s just a tremendous competitor and such a unique individual in that’s he able to do the kind of stuff with the names on this kind of list. And we still have game left [this season], so he’s going to keep going. There are markers this guy is going to continue to knock off.”
Wilson needs to throw three touchdown passes the rest of the way this season to move to No. 2 on the TDs list, passing Manning’s total of 52 his first two season at Indianapolis. Marino’s total of 68 TDs probably is out of reach.
Wilson also can pass the record of former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Danny White of 16 consecutive home victories to start his NFL career. Wilson has 14 now, but he can top White’s mark this season if the Seahawks win their final two home games and continue to win at home in the playoffs.
Wilson’s .767 winning percentage (23-7) is second among all active quarterbacks with at least 15 starts. Tom Brady is No. 1 with a .772 percentage.Posted by ESPN.com's Tim Graham
Nowhere else in sports have stats been more irrelevant than in the AFC East, where illogical verdicts have been rendered on a near-weekly basis.
The Miami Dolphins have had their share but came out ahead for a change Sunday by gaining 104 yards in a victory over the New York Jets, just the latest in a growing collection of incredible results relative to the box score.
There have been enough of these crazy outcomes to put them up for a vote. Take a look at the seven candidates below and then submit your vote and your reasoning in the comments section. I will tally them up and compile the most compelling arguments for a blog entry later in the week that reveals your pick for the most absurd game through the first half of the 2009 season.
Not sure if this explains anything, but I attended six of the seven games.
Week 1: Patriots 25, Bills 24. The Bills don't trail for almost 59 minutes, but Leodis McKelvin fumbles a kickoff inside the final two minutes, setting up Tom Brady with a short field. Brady throws his second touchdown in a span of 1:16 to escape with a dramatic victory.
Week 2: Colts 27, Dolphins 23. The Colts run only 35 offensive plays because the Dolphins hold the ball for an amazing 45:07. But the Colts average an obnoxious 10.7 yards per snap and 12.3 yards per pass attempt, becoming the first team to win with a recorded time of possession of less than 15 minutes.
Week 4: Saints 24, Jets 10. The Jets' offense gives up more points than it scores and more points than its defense allows. The Saints score touchdowns on two of Mark Sanchez's four turnovers.
Week 5: Browns 6, Bills 3. Browns quarterback Derek Anderson starts, plays the entire game and completes two passes for 23 yards. His 11.8 completion percentage is the second-worst since the NFL-AFL merger for a winning quarterback with at least 15 attempts.
Week 6: Bills 16, Jets 13 (OT). The Bills allow 318 rushing yards, second-most in Jets history. Thomas Jones runs for the most yards of his career, setting a Jets record. His 210 yards are the fifth most in a defeat since the merger. But the Jets throw six interceptions, five of them by Sanchez.
Week 7: Saints 46, Dolphins 34. The Dolphins hold a 21-point lead for the first 29 minutes of the game but collapse the rest of the way, giving up 24 points in the fourth quarter to become the first team in 22 years to blow a 21-point lead and lose by at least a dozen.
Week 8: Dolphins 30, Jets 25. A sublime Jets defense holds the Dolphins to 104 total yards (third fewest in franchise history) and 1.9 yards per pass attempt. The Dolphins score one offensive touchdown, but two Ted Ginn kickoff returns and a Jason Taylor fumble return -- all in the third quarter -- make the difference.NFL scouting seems to get more and more interesting every year.
Consider the case of Arkansas center Travis Swanson, who admitted at his combine interview that he patterns his game after Cleveland Browns center Alex Mack.
If Mack leaves the Browns via free agency, Swanson would be a legitimate candidate to be drafted in Mack’s place.
Swanson went through the usual questions in his media interview, saying he's laid-back and likes all kind of music and plays guitar. All that stuff. Then he talked about an interview with a Browns scout at the Senior Bowl.
“I got asked to name all the things I could do with a single brick in one minute,” Swanson said.
A brick.
“That kind of threw me off,” he said.
Understandably.
Not that it hasn't been studied. A PowerPoint online titled “Creative Thinking Techniques -- Forty Uses For a Brick” by a gentleman named Sandy Cormack goes through many different ways a brick can be used.
Among them: Bug whacker, ballast, desk paperweight. The point is to "empty your mind of the 'usual' ideas" and go from there.
Except it's still a brick.
Swanson did his best.
“I think I said, 'You could use it as a doorstop. You could start to build something,' Swanson said. "I think that’s about all I got."
Which isn't bad actually.
Then came the combine, where Mike Silver of NFL.com reported that at least two players were asked in their interview how many different things they could do with a paper clip. Yes, the team that asked was the Browns.
Naturally, there is a website for that as well.
Xrysostom.com relates a paper clip can be used as a cherry pit remover, a hymn marker (for organists) and a miniature slingshot. Yes, the last one is a bit bizarre.
Another site that titles itself Innovation IQ has another list for the paper clip, which includes worm hook, DVD drive opener and marshmallow sticks (?). It also says the paper clip can be used to make alphabet letters.
OK, then.
All this is well and good, and may in fact tell a Browns scout the ingenuity level of a player, and how quickly said player can think when confronted with something odd. It’s quirky, but has a point.
This is also not unique to the Browns, mind you. Teams are always falling all over themselves to find new ways to garner information about a player, and every team finds a way to ask a unique question.
But it reminds me of the day I was covering a baseball game and a scout relayed a story of sitting in the stands and striking up a conversation with a fan who had his own sabermetric charts on every player. The fan had pages of stats, with all kinds of analysis and categories he had devised. Some of it was interesting, the scout said.
But then he looked at the guy and asked where the category was for “CHP.”
What’s CHP, asked the fan?
Can he play?
Presumably that's at least the starting point.Linebacker Vincent Rey will get $1 million guaranteed in 2014, the first year of a two-year deal he agreed to with the Cincinnati Bengals on Saturday.
If he ends up making the full amount of his contract, he will end up receiving a nice annual bump in pay from what he had previously been making as an undrafted backup and special teams star. After receiving a career-high $630,000 in 2013, Rey will earn $1 million in base salary in 2014 and $2 million in base salary in 2015. With bonuses factored in, he holds an overall cap value of $2.1 million in each of the two seasons.
Rey was re-signed about a week and a half after receiving a low-round tender from the Bengals. He was one of three Bengals' restricted free agents to receive the tender that equaled $1.43 million. Receivers Andrew Hawkins and Dane Sanzenbacher also received the tenders. Hawkins currently holds a four-year, $13.6 million offer sheet from the Cleveland Browns that the Bengals have until 11:59 p.m. ET Tuesday to match. If they don't match it, Hawkins will leave for Cleveland, and the Bengals will be left empty-handed. Because each of the low-round tenders were undrafted free agents, the Bengals won't receive draft compensation if any of them signs with another team.
While he still was mostly a backup in 2013, Rey ended up having the best season of his career.
He set career-highs in tackles (47), sacks (4) and interceptions (2). Against the Ravens in Week 10, he became the only player in Bengals history to record three sacks and an interception in the same game. It is expected that he might start training camp behind Vontaze Burfict at the "Will" outside linebacker position, but he also could play at the middle, or "Mike," position after adequately relieving Rey Maualuga for three games there last season.
Here's a look at the breakdown of Rey's new Bengals contract (specifics come from ESPN's Stats & Information):
2014
Cap value: $2,100,000
Cash value: $2,100,000
Signing bonus: $0
Roster bonus: $1,000,000
Workout bonus: $100,000
Base salary: $1,000,000
Guaranteed money: $1,000,000
2015
Cap value: $2,100,000
Cash value: $2,100,000
Signing bonus: $0
Roster bonus: $0
Workout bonus: $100,000
Base salary: $2,000,000In 2009, Pittsburgh free-agent receiver Nate Washington signed a six-year, $26.8 million contract with Tennessee that included $9 million guaranteed.
In 2014, he is in line to play the final year of that deal.
What an anomaly.
Five- and six-year deals in the NFL are crafted to look pretty and sound good. But we regularly see guys cut before they get to the final year or two of scheduled money.
In 2008, defensive end Jared Allen signed a 6-year, $73.2 million contract with $31 million guaranteed with Minnesota. He played out that contract and is now weighing his options.
According to Evan Kaplan of ESPN Stats & Info, 31 players signed six-year deals in 2009. Twelve were rookies, which is different than a veteran changing teams.
Of the remaining 19, only Washington and Falcons receiver Roddy White are in line to play out their contracts. The rest either restructured their deals, signed new contracts or were cut and signed elsewhere.
Before I had those numbers, I asked Washington about how gratifying it would be to play out the entire contract.
"The person I am today is not who I was when I first got to Tennessee," Washington said. "They’ve been patient enough for me to grow into something that could be great for them. I appreciate the opportunity.
"I was born in Pittsburgh, and I was bred here in Nashville. This place truly gave me my opportunity to be a professional."
We are seeing shorter contracts these days. And many that are four-year deals, such as the one the Titans gave right tackle Michael Oher, could actually end rather painlessly for the team after just one year.
Signing bonuses can only be pro-rated over five years now. Still, New Orleans safety Jairus Byrd and Denver cornerback Aquib Talib just signed six-year contracts.
What kind of odds would you give them to be with the Saints and Broncos, respectively, in 2020?